
Alma 30:13
 13 O ye that are bound down under a foolish and a vain hope, why
do ye yoke yourselves with such foolish things?  Why do ye look
for a Christ?  For no man can know of anything which is to come.

Alma 30:14
 14 Behold, these things which ye call prophecies, which ye say
are handed down by holy prophets, behold, they are foolish
traditions of your fathers.

Alma 30:15
 15 How do ye know of their surety?  Behold, ye cannot know of
things which ye do not see; therefore ye cannot know that there
shall be a Christ.

Alma 30:16
 16 Ye look forward and say that ye see a remission of your sins.
But behold, it is the effect of a frenzied mind; and this
derangement of your minds comes because of the traditions of your
fathers, which lead you away into a belief of things which are
not so.



Because I do not teach the foolish traditions of your
fathers, and because I do not teach this people to bind
themselves down under the foolish ordinances and performances
which are laid down by ancient priests, to usurp power and
authority over them, to keep them in ignorance, that they may not
lift up their heads, but be brought down according to thy words.

Alma 30:24
 24 Ye say that this people is a free people.  Behold, I say they
are in bondage.  Ye say that those ancient prophecies are true. 
Behold, I say that ye do not know that they are true.

Alma 30:25
 25 Ye say that this people is a guilty and a fallen people,
because of the transgression of a parent.  Behold, I say that a
child is not guilty because of its parents.

Alma 30:26
 26 And ye also say that Christ shall come.  But behold, I say
that ye do not know that there shall be a Christ.  And ye say
also that he shall be slain for the sins of the world--

Alma 30:27
 27 And thus ye lead away this people after the foolish
traditions of your fathers, and according to your own desires;
and ye keep them down, even as it were in bondage, that ye may
glut yourselves with the labors of their hands, that they durst
not look up with boldness, and that they durst not enjoy their
rights and privileges.

Alma 30:28
 28 Yea, they durst not make use of that which is their own lest
they should offend their priests, who do yoke them according to
their desires, and have brought them to believe, by their
traditions and their dreams and their whims and their visions and
their pretended mysteries, that they should, if they did not do
according to their words, offend some unknown being, who they say
is God--a being who never has been seen or known, who never was
nor ever will be.

If thou wilt show me a sign,
that I may be convinced that there is a God, yea, show unto me
that he hath power, and then will I be convinced of the truth of
thy words.

Yea, I will deny,
except ye shall show me a sign.


I do not deny the existence of a
God, but I do not believe that there is a God; and I say also,
that ye do not know that there is a God; and except ye show me a
sign, I will not believe.


I know that
I am dumb, for I cannot speak; and I know that nothing save it
were the power of God could bring this upon me; yea, and I always
knew that there was a God.

Alma 30:53
 53 But behold, the devil hath deceived me; for he appeared unto
me in the form of an angel, and said unto me: Go and reclaim this
people, for they have all gone astray after an unknown God.  And
he said unto me: There is no God; yea, and he taught me that
which I should say.  And I have taught his words; and I taught
them because they were pleasing unto the carnal mind; and I
taught them, even until I had much success, insomuch that I
verily believed that they were true; and for this cause I
withstood the truth, even until I have brought this great curse
upon me.







