
OFFICIAL DECLARATION 



To Whom it may Concern : 

Press dispatches having been sent for political purposes, from 
Salt Lake City, which have been widely published, to the effect that 
the Utah Commission, in their recent report to the Secretary of the 
Interior, allege that plural marriages are still being solemnized and 
that forty or more such marriages have been contracted in Utah 
since last June or during the past year, also that in public discourses 
the leaders of the Church have taught, encouraged and urged the 
continuance of the practice of polygamy — 

I, therefore, as President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter- 
day Saints, do hereby, in the most solemn manner, declare that 
these charges are false. We are not teaching polygamy or plural 
marriage, nor permitting any person to enter into its practice, and 
I deny that either forty or any other number of plural marriages 
have during that period been solemnized in our Temples or in any 
other place in the Territory. 

One case has been reported, in which the parties allege that the 
marriage was performed in the Endowment House, in Salt Lake 
City, in the Spring of 1889, but I have not been able to learn who 



OFFICIAL DECLARATION 257 

performed the ceremony; whatever was done in this matter was 
without my knowledge. In consequence of this alleged occurrence 
the Endowment House was, by my instructions, taken down without 
delay. 

Inasmuch as laws have been enacted by Congress forbidding plural 
marriages, which laws have been pronounced constitutional by the 
court of last resort, I hereby declare my intention to submit to those 
laws, and to use my influence with the members of the Church over 
which I preside to have them do likewise. 

There is nothing in my teachings to the Church or in those of my 
associates, during the time specified, which can be reasonably con- 
strued to inculcate or encourage polygamy; and when any Elder of 
the Church has used language which appeared to convey any such 
teaching, he has been promptly reproved. And I now publicly de- 
clare that my advice to the Latter-day Saints is to refrain from 
contracting any marriage forbidden by the law of the land. 

Wilfobd Woodruff 
President of the Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints. 

President Lorenzo Snow offered the following: 

"I move that, recognizing Wilford Woodruff as the President of 
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and the only man 
on the earth at the present time who holds the keys of the sealing 
ordinances, we consider him fully authorized by virtue of his posi- 
tion to issue the Manifesto which has been read in our hearing, and 
which is dated September 24th, 1890, and that as a Church in Gen- 
eral Conference assembled, we accept his declaration concerning 
plural mtrriages as authoritative and binding." 

The vote to sustain the foregoing motion was unanimous. 

Salt Lake City, Utah, October 6, 1890. 

