Alma, arise and stand
forth, for why persecutest thou the church of God?  For the Lord
hath said: This is my church, and I will establish it; and
nothing shall overthrow it, save it is the transgression of my
people.

Mosiah 27:14
 14 And again, the angel said: Behold, the Lord hath heard the
prayers of his people, and also the prayers of his servant, Alma,
who is thy father; for he has prayed with much faith concerning
thee that thou mightest be brought to the knowledge of the truth;
therefore, for this purpose have I come to convince thee of the
power and authority of God, that the prayers of his servants
might be answered according to their faith.

Mosiah 27:15
 15 And now behold, can ye dispute the power of God?  For behold,
doth not my voice shake the earth?  And can ye not also behold me
before you?  And I am sent from God.

Mosiah 27:16
 16 Now I say unto thee: Go, and remember the captivity of thy
fathers in the land of Helam, and in the land of Nephi; and
remember how great things he has done for them; for they were in
bondage, and he has delivered them.  And now I say unto thee,
Alma, go thy way, and seek to destroy the church no more, that
their prayers may be answered, and this even if thou wilt of
thyself be cast off.






Alma 8:15
 15 Blessed art thou, Alma; therefore, lift up thy head and
rejoice, for thou hast great cause to rejoice; for thou hast been
faithful in keeping the commandments of God from the time which
thou receivedst thy first message from him.  Behold, I am he that
delivered it unto you.

Alma 8:16
 16 And behold, I am sent to command thee that thou return to the
city of Ammonihah, and preach again unto the people of the city;
yea, preach unto them.  Yea, say unto them, except they repent
the Lord God will destroy them.

Alma 8:17
 17 For behold, they do study at this time that they may destroy
the liberty of thy people, (for thus saith the Lord) which is
contrary to the statutes, and judgments, and commandments which
he has given unto his people.