Behold, thus saith the Lord, and thus hath he
commanded me, saying, Go forth, and say unto this people, thus
saith the Lord--Wo be unto this people, for I have seen their
abominations, and their wickedness, and their whoredoms; and
except they repent I will visit them in mine anger.

Mosiah 11:21
 21 And except they repent and turn to the Lord their God,
behold, I will deliver them into the hands of their enemies; yea,
and they shall be brought into bondage; and they shall be
afflicted by the hand of their enemies.

Mosiah 11:22
 22 And it shall come to pass that they shall know that I am the
Lord their God, and am a jealous God, visiting the iniquities of
my people.

Mosiah 11:23
 23 And it shall come to pass that except this people repent and
turn unto the Lord their God, they shall be brought into bondage;
and none shall deliver them, except it be the Lord the Almighty
God.

Mosiah 11:24
 24 Yea, and it shall come to pass that when they shall cry unto
me I will be slow to hear their cries; yea, and I will suffer
them that they be smitten by their enemies.

Mosiah 11:25
 25 And except they repent in sackcloth and ashes, and cry
mightily to the Lord their God, I will not hear their prayers,
neither will I deliver them out of their afflictions; and thus
saith the Lord, and thus hath he commanded me.





Thus has the Lord commanded
me, saying--Abinadi, go and prophesy unto this my people, for
they have hardened their hearts against my words; they have
repented not of their evil doings; therefore, I will visit them
in my anger, yea, in my fierce anger will I visit them in their
iniquities and abominations.

Mosiah 12:2
 2 Yea, wo be unto this generation!  And the Lord said unto me:
Stretch forth thy hand and prophesy saying: Thus saith the Lord,
it shall come to pass that this generation, because of their
iniquities, shall be brought into bondage, and shall be smitten
on the cheek; yea, and shall be driven by men, and shall be
slain; and the vultures of the air, and the dogs, yea, and the
wild beasts, shall devour their flesh.

Mosiah 12:3
 3 And it shall come to pass that the life of king Noah shall be
valued even as a garment in a hot furnace; for he shall know that
I am the Lord.

Mosiah 12:4
 4 And it shall come to pass that I will smite this my people
with sore afflictions, yea, with famine and with pestilence; and
I will cause that they shall howl all the day long.

Mosiah 12:5
 5 Yea, and I will cause that they shall have burdens lashed upon
their backs; and they shall be driven before like a dumb ass.

Mosiah 12:6
 6 And it shall come to pass that I will send forth hail among
them, and it shall smite them; and they shall also be smitten
with the east wind; and insects shall pester their land also, and
devour their grain.

Mosiah 12:7
 7 And they shall be smitten with a great pestilence--and all
this will I do because of their iniquities and abominations.

Mosiah 12:8
 8 And it shall come to pass that except they repent I will
utterly destroy them from off the face of the earth; yet they
shall leave a record behind them, and I will preserve them for
other nations which shall possess the land; yea, even this will I
do that I may discover the abominations of this people to other
nations.






Mosiah 12:25
 25 And now Abinadi said unto them: Are you priests, and pretend
to teach this people, and to understand the spirit of
prophesying, and yet desire to know of me what these things mean?

Mosiah 12:26
 26 I say unto you, wo be unto you for perverting the ways of the
Lord!  For if ye understand these things ye have not taught them;
therefore, ye have perverted the ways of the Lord.

Mosiah 12:27
 27 Ye have not applied your hearts to understanding; therefore,
ye have not been wise.  Therefore, what teach ye this people?

Mosiah 12:28
 28 And they said: We teach the law of Moses.

Mosiah 12:29
 29 And again he said unto them: If ye teach the law of Moses why
do ye not keep it?  Why do ye set your hearts upon riches?  Why
do ye commit whoredoms and spend your strength with harlots, yea,
and cause this people to commit sin, that the Lord has cause to
send me to prophesy against this people, yea, even a great evil
against this people?

Mosiah 12:30
 30 Know ye not that I speak the truth?  Yea, ye know that I
speak the truth; and you ought to tremble before God.

Mosiah 12:31
 31 And it shall come to pass that ye shall be smitten for your
iniquities, for ye have said that ye teach the law of Moses.  And
what know ye concerning the law of Moses?  Doth salvation come by
the law of Moses?  What say ye?

Mosiah 12:32
 32 And they answered and said that salvation did come by the law
of Moses.

Mosiah 12:33
 33 But now Abinadi said unto them: I know if ye keep the
commandments of God ye shall be saved; yea, if ye keep the
commandments which the Lord delivered unto Moses in the mount of
Sinai, saying:

Mosiah 12:34
 34 I am the Lord thy God, who hath brought thee out of the land
of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.

Mosiah 12:35
 35 Thou shalt have no other God before me.

Mosiah 12:36
 36 Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any
likeness of any thing in heaven above, or things which are in the
earth beneath.

Mosiah 12:37
 37 Now Abinadi said unto them, Have ye done all this?  I say
unto you, Nay, ye have not.  And have ye taught this people that
they should do all these things?  I say unto you, Nay, ye have
not.




Mosiah 13:3
 3 Touch me not, for God shall smite you if ye lay your hands
upon me, for I have not delivered the message which the Lord sent
me to deliver; neither have I told you that which ye requested
that I should tell; therefore, God will not suffer that I shall
be destroyed at this time.

Mosiah 13:4
 4 But I must fulfil the commandments wherewith God has commanded
me; and because I have told you the truth ye are angry with me. 
And again, because I have spoken the word of God ye have judged
me that I am mad.


.



Mosiah 13:7
 7 Ye see that ye have not power to slay me, therefore I finish
my message.  Yea, and I perceive that it cuts you to your hearts
because I tell you the truth concerning your iniquities.

Mosiah 13:8
 8 Yea, and my words fill you with wonder and amazement, and with
anger.

Mosiah 13:9
 9 But I finish my message; and then it matters not whither I go,
if it so be that I am saved.

Mosiah 13:10
 10 But this much I tell you, what you do with me, after this,
shall be as a type and a shadow of things which are to come.

Mosiah 13:11
 11 And now I read unto you the remainder of the commandments of
God, for I perceive that they are not written in your hearts; I
perceive that ye have studied and taught iniquity the most part
of your lives.

Mosiah 13:12
 12 And now, ye remember that I said unto you: Thou shall not
make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of things which
are in heaven above, or which are in the earth beneath, or which
are in the water under the earth.

Mosiah 13:13
 13 And again: Thou shalt not bow down thyself unto them, nor
serve them; for I the Lord thy God am a jealous God, visiting the
iniquities of the fathers upon the children, unto the third and
fourth generations of them that hate me;

Mosiah 13:14
 14 And showing mercy unto thousands of them that love me and
keep my commandments.

Mosiah 13:15
 15 Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for
the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in
vain.

Mosiah 13:16
 16 Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy.

Mosiah 13:17
 17 Six days shalt thou labor, and do all thy work;

Mosiah 13:18
 18 But the seventh day, the sabbath of the Lord thy God, thou
shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy
man-servant, nor thy maid-servant, nor thy cattle, nor thy
stranger that is within thy gates;

Mosiah 13:19
 19 For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, and the sea,
and all that in them is; wherefore the Lord blessed the sabbath
day, and hallowed it.

Mosiah 13:20
 20 Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long
upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee.

Mosiah 13:21
 21 Thou shalt not kill.

Mosiah 13:22
 22 Thou shalt not commit adultery.  Thou shalt not steal.

Mosiah 13:23
 23 Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor.

Mosiah 13:24
 24 Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house, thou shalt not
covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his man-servant, nor his
maid-servant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is thy
neighbor's.

Mosiah 13:25
 25 And it came to pass that after Abinadi had made an end of
these sayings that he said unto them: Have ye taught this people
that they should observe to do all these things for to keep these
commandments?

Mosiah 13:26
 26 I say unto you, Nay; for if ye had, the Lord would not have
caused me to come forth and to prophesy evil concerning this
people.

Mosiah 13:27
 27 And now ye have said that salvation cometh by the law of
Moses.  I say unto you that it is expedient that ye should keep
the law of Moses as yet; but I say unto you, that the time shall
come when it shall no more be expedient to keep the law of Moses.

Mosiah 13:28
 28 And moreover, I say unto you, that salvation doth not come by
the law alone; and were it not for the atonement, which God
himself shall make for the sins and iniquities of his people,
that they must unavoidably perish, notwithstanding the law of
Moses.

Mosiah 13:29
 29 And now I say unto you that it was expedient that there
should be a law given to the children of Israel, yea, even a very
strict law; for they were a stiffnecked people, quick to do
iniquity, and slow to remember the Lord their God;

Mosiah 13:30
 30 Therefore there was a law given them, yea, a law of
performances and of ordinances, a law which they were to observe
strictly from day to day, to keep them in remembrance of God and
their duty towards him.

Mosiah 13:31
 31 But behold, I say unto you, that all these things were types
of things to come.

Mosiah 13:32
 32 And now, did they understand the law?  I say unto you, Nay,
they did not all understand the law; and this because of the
hardness of their hearts; for they understood not that there
could not any man be saved except it were through the redemption
of God.

Mosiah 13:33
 33 For behold, did not Moses prophesy unto them concerning the
coming of the Messiah, and that God should redeem his people? 
Yea, and even all the prophets who have prophesied ever since the
world began--have they not spoken more or less concerning these
things?

Mosiah 13:34
 34 Have they not said that God himself should come down among
the children of men, and take upon him the form of man, and go
forth in mighty power upon the face of the earth?

Mosiah 13:35
 35 Yea, and have they not said also that he should bring to pass
the resurrection of the dead, and that he, himself, should be
oppressed and afflicted?

Mosiah 14
Chapter 14

Mosiah 14:1
 1 Yea, even doth not Isaiah say:




Mosiah 15
Chapter 15

Mosiah 15:1
 1 And now Abinadi said unto them: I would that ye should
understand that God himself shall come down among the children of
men, and shall redeem his people.

Mosiah 15:2
 2 And because he dwelleth in flesh he shall be called the Son of
God, and having subjected the flesh to the will of the Father,
being the Father and the Son--

Mosiah 15:3
 3 The Father, because he was conceived by the power of God; and
the Son, because of the flesh; thus becoming the Father and Son--

Mosiah 15:4
 4 And they are one God, yea, the very Eternal Father of heaven
and of earth.

Mosiah 15:5
 5 And thus the flesh becoming subject to the Spirit, or the Son
to the Father, being one God, suffereth temptation, and yieldeth
not to the temptation, but suffereth himself to be mocked, and
scourged, and cast out, and disowned by his people.

Mosiah 15:6
 6 And after all this, after working many mighty miracles among
the children of men, he shall be led, yea, even as Isaiah said,
as a sheep before the shearer is dumb, so he opened not his
mouth.

Mosiah 15:7
 7 Yea, even so he shall be led, crucified, and slain, the flesh
becoming subject even unto death, the will of the Son being
swallowed up in the will of the Father.

Mosiah 15:8
 8 And thus God breaketh the bands of death, having gained the
victory over death; giving the Son power to make intercession for
the children of men--

Mosiah 15:9
 9 Having ascended into heaven, having the bowels of mercy; being
filled with compassion towards the children of men; standing
betwixt them and justice; having broken the bands of death, taken
upon himself their iniquity and their transgressions, having
redeemed them, and satisfied the demands of justice.

Mosiah 15:10
 10 And now I say unto you, who shall declare his generation? 
Behold, I say unto you, that when his soul has been made an
offering for sin he shall see his seed.  And now what say ye? 
And who shall be his seed?

Mosiah 15:11
 11 Behold I say unto you, that whosoever has heard the words of
the prophets, yea, all the holy prophets who have prophesied
concerning the coming of the Lord--I say unto you, that all those
who have hearkened unto their words, and believed that the Lord
would redeem his people, and have looked forward to that day for
a remission of their sins, I say unto you, that these are his
seed, or they are heirs of the kingdom of God.

Mosiah 15:12
 12 For these are they whose sins he has borne; these are they
for whom he has died, to redeem them from their transgressions. 
And now, are they not his seed?

Mosiah 15:13
 13 Yea, and are not the prophets, every one that has opened his
mouth to prophesy, that has not fallen into transgression, I mean
all the holy prophets ever since the world began?  I say unto you
that they are his seed.

Mosiah 15:14
 14 And these are they who have published peace, who have brought
good tidings of good, who have published salvation; and said unto
Zion: Thy God reigneth!

Mosiah 15:15
 15 And O how beautiful upon the mountains were their feet!

Mosiah 15:16
 16 And again, how beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of
those that are still publishing peace!

Mosiah 15:17
 17 And again, how beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of
those who shall hereafter publish peace, yea, from this time
henceforth and forever!

Mosiah 15:18
 18 And behold, I say unto you, this is not all.  For O how
beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth
good tidings, that is the founder of peace, yea, even the Lord,
who has redeemed his people; yea, him who has granted salvation
unto his people;

Mosiah 15:19
 19 For were it not for the redemption which he hath made for his
people, which was prepared from the foundation of the world, I
say unto you, were it not for this, all mankind must have
perished.

Mosiah 15:20
 20 But behold, the bands of death shall be broken, and the Son
reigneth, and hath power over the dead; therefore, he bringeth to
pass the resurrection of the dead.

Mosiah 15:21
 21 And there cometh a resurrection, even a first resurrection;
yea, even a resurrection of those that have been, and who are,
and who shall be, even until the resurrection of Christ--for so
shall he be called.

Mosiah 15:22
 22 And now, the resurrection of all the prophets, and all those
that have believed in their words, or all those that have kept
the commandments of God, shall come forth in the first
resurrection; therefore, they are the first resurrection.

Mosiah 15:23
 23 They are raised to dwell with God who has redeemed them; thus
they have eternal life through Christ, who has broken the bands
of death.

Mosiah 15:24
 24 And these are those who have part in the first resurrection;
and these are they that have died before Christ came, in their
ignorance, not having salvation declared unto them.  And thus the
Lord bringeth about the restoration of these; and they have a
part in the first resurrection, or have eternal life, being
redeemed by the Lord.

Mosiah 15:25
 25 And little children also have eternal life.

Mosiah 15:26
 26 But behold, and fear, and tremble before God, for ye ought to
tremble; for the Lord redeemeth none such that rebel against him
and die in their sins; yea, even all those that have perished in
their sins ever since the world began, that have wilfully
rebelled against God, that have known the commandments of God,
and would not keep them; these are they that have no part in the
first resurrection.

Mosiah 15:27
 27 Therefore ought ye not to tremble?  For salvation cometh to
none such; for the Lord hath redeemed none such; yea, neither can
the Lord redeem such; for he cannot deny himself; for he cannot
deny justice when it has its claim.

Mosiah 15:28
 28 And now I say unto you that the time shall come that the
salvation of the Lord shall be declared to every nation, kindred,
tongue, and people.

Mosiah 15:29
 29 Yea, Lord, thy watchmen shall lift up their voice; with the
voice together shall they sing; for they shall see eye to eye,
when the Lord shall bring again Zion.

Mosiah 15:30
 30 Break forth into joy, sing together, ye waste places of
Jerusalem; for the Lord hath comforted his people, he hath
redeemed Jerusalem.

Mosiah 15:31
 31 The Lord hath made bare his holy arm in the eyes of all the
nations; and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of
our God.

Mosiah 16
Chapter 16

Mosiah 16:1
 1 And now, it came to pass that after Abinadi had spoken these
words he stretched forth his hand and said: The time shall come
when all shall see the salvation of the Lord; when every nation,
kindred, tongue, and people shall see eye to eye and shall
confess before God that his judgments are just.

Mosiah 16:2
 2 And then shall the wicked be cast out, and they shall have
cause to howl, and weep, and wail, and gnash their teeth; and
this because they would not hearken unto the voice of the Lord;
therefore the Lord redeemeth them not.

Mosiah 16:3
 3 For they are carnal and devilish, and the devil has power over
them; yea, even that old serpent that did beguile our first
parents, which was the cause of their fall; which was the cause
of all mankind becoming carnal, sensual, devilish, knowing evil
from good, subjecting themselves to the devil.

Mosiah 16:4
 4 Thus all mankind were lost; and behold, they would have been
endlessly lost were it not that God redeemed his people from
their lost and fallen state.

Mosiah 16:5
 5 But remember that he that persists in his own carnal nature,
and goes on in the ways of sin and rebellion against God,
remaineth in his fallen state and the devil hath all power over
him.  Therefore, he is as though there was no redemption made,
being an enemy to God; and also is the devil an enemy to God.

Mosiah 16:6
 6 And now if Christ had not come into the world, speaking of
things to come as though they had already come, there could have
been no redemption.

Mosiah 16:7
 7 And if Christ had not risen from the dead, or have broken the
bands of death that the grave should have no victory, and that
death should have no sting, there could have been no
resurrection.

Mosiah 16:8
 8 But there is a resurrection, therefore the grave hath no
victory, and the sting of death is swallowed up in Christ.

Mosiah 16:9
 9 He is the light and the life of the world; yea, a light that
is endless, that can never be darkened; yea, and also a life
which is endless, that there can be no more death.

Mosiah 16:10
 10 Even this mortal shall put on immortality, and this
corruption shall put on incorruption, and shall be brought to
stand before the bar of God, to be judged of him according to
their works whether they be good or whether they be evil--

Mosiah 16:11
 11 If they be good, to the resurrection of endless life and
happiness; and if they be evil, to the resurrection of endless
damnation, being delivered up to the devil, who hath subjected
them, which is damnation--

Mosiah 16:12
 12 Having gone according to their own carnal wills and desires;
having never called upon the Lord while the arms of mercy were
extended towards them; for the arms of mercy were extended
towards them, and they would not; they being warned of their
iniquities and yet they would not depart from them; and they were
commanded to repent and yet they would not repent.

Mosiah 16:13
 13 And now, ought ye not to tremble and repent of your sins, and
remember that only in and through Christ ye can be saved?

Mosiah 16:14
 14 Therefore, if ye teach the law of Moses, also teach that it
is a shadow of those things which are to come--

Mosiah 16:15
 15 Teach them that redemption cometh through Christ the Lord,
who is the very Eternal Father.  Amen.






Mosiah 17:9
 9 Now Abinadi said unto him: I say unto you, I will not recall
the words which I have spoken unto you concerning this people,
for they are true; and that ye may know of their surety I have
suffered myself that I have fallen into your hands.

Mosiah 17:10
 10 Yea, and I will suffer even until death, and I will not
recall my words, and they shall stand as a testimony against you.

And if ye slay me ye will shed innocent blood, and this shall
also stand as a testimony against you at the last day.


.



Mosiah 17:15
 15 Behold, even as ye have done unto me, so shall it come to
pass that thy seed shall cause that many shall suffer the pains
that I do suffer, even the pains of death by fire; and this
because they believe in the salvation of the Lord their God.

Mosiah 17:16
 16 And it will come to pass that ye shall be afflicted with all
manner of diseases because of your iniquities.

Mosiah 17:17
 17 Yea, and ye shall be smitten on every hand, and shall be
driven and scattered to and fro, even as a wild flock is driven
by wild and ferocious beasts.

Mosiah 17:18
 18 And in that day ye shall be hunted, and ye shall be taken by
the hand of your enemies, and then ye shall suffer, as I suffer,
the pains of death by fire.

Mosiah 17:19
 19 Thus God executeth vengeance upon those that destroy his
people.  O God, receive my soul.

