KJV
King James Bible: Pure Cambridge Edition - Text courtesy of www.BibleProtector.com
Genesis 1:1	In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.
Genesis 1:2	And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness [was] upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters.
Genesis 1:3	And God said, 


and there was light.
Genesis 1:4	And God saw the light, that [it was] good: and God divided the light from the darkness.
Genesis 1:5	And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And the evening and the morning were the first day.
Genesis 1:6	And God said,

Genesis 1:7	And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which [were] under the firmament from the waters which [were] above the firmament: and it was so.
Genesis 1:8	And God called the firmament Heaven. And the evening and the morning were the second day.
Genesis 1:9	And God said,

and it was so.
Genesis 1:12	And the earth brought forth grass, [and] herb yielding seed after his kind, and the tree yielding fruit, whose seed [was] in itself, after his kind: and God saw that [it was] good.
Genesis 1:13	And the evening and the morning were the third day.
Genesis 1:14	And God said,

Genesis 1:16	And God made two great lights; the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night: [he made] the stars also.
Genesis 1:17	And God set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth,
Genesis 1:18	And to rule over the day and over the night, and to divide the light from the darkness: and God saw that [it was] good.
Genesis 1:19	And the evening and the morning were the fourth day.
Genesis 1:20	And God said,


Genesis 1:23	And the evening and the morning were the fifth day.
Genesis 1:24	And God said,

and it was so.
Genesis 1:25	And God made the beast of the earth after his kind, and cattle after their kind, and every thing that creepeth upon the earth after his kind: and God saw that [it was] good.
Genesis 1:26	And God said,

Genesis 1:27	So God created man in his [own] image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them.
Genesis 1:28	And God blessed them, and God said unto them,

Genesis 1:29	And God said,

and it was so.


Genesis 1:31	And God saw every thing that he had made, and, behold, [it was] very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day.
Genesis 2:1	Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them.
Genesis 2:2	And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made; and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made.
Genesis 2:3	And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it: because that in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made.
Genesis 2:4	These [are] the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created, in the day that the LORD God made the earth and the heavens,
Genesis 2:5	And every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew: for the LORD God had not caused it to rain upon the earth, and [there was] not a man to till the ground.
Genesis 2:6	But there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground.
Genesis 2:7	And the LORD God formed man [of] the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul.
Genesis 2:8	And the LORD God planted a garden eastward in Eden; and there he put the man whom he had formed.
Genesis 2:9	And out of the ground made the LORD God to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food; the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good and evil.
Genesis 2:10	And a river went out of Eden to water the garden; and from thence it was parted, and became into four heads.
Genesis 2:11	The name of the first [is] Pison: that [is] it which compasseth the whole land of Havilah, where [there is] gold;
Genesis 2:12	And the gold of that land [is] good: there [is] bdellium and the onyx stone.
Genesis 2:13	And the name of the second river [is] Gihon: the same [is] it that compasseth the whole land of Ethiopia.
Genesis 2:14	And the name of the third river [is] Hiddekel: that [is] it which goeth toward the east of Assyria. And the fourth river [is] Euphrates.
Genesis 2:15	And the LORD God took the man, and put him into the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it.
Genesis 2:16	And the LORD God commanded the man, saying,


Genesis 2:18	And the LORD God said, 

Genesis 2:19	And out of the ground the LORD God formed every beast of the field, and every fowl of the air; and brought [them] unto Adam to see what he would call them: and whatsoever Adam called every living creature, that [was] the name thereof.
Genesis 2:20	And Adam gave names to all cattle, and to the fowl of the air, and to every beast of the field; but for Adam there was not found an help meet for him.
Genesis 2:21	And the LORD God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept: and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead thereof;
Genesis 2:22	And the rib, which the LORD God had taken from man, made he a woman, and brought her unto the man.
Genesis 2:23	And Adam said,

Genesis 2:24	Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh.
Genesis 2:25	And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed.
Genesis 3:1	Now the serpent was more subtil than any beast of the field which the LORD God had made. And he said unto the woman,

Genesis 3:2	And the woman said unto the serpent,


Genesis 3:4	And the serpent said unto the woman, 

Genesis 3:6	And when the woman saw that the tree [was] good for food, and that it [was] pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make [one] wise, she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave also unto her husband with her; and he did eat.
Genesis 3:7	And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they [were] naked; and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves aprons.
Genesis 3:8	And they heard the voice of the LORD God walking in the garden in the cool of the day: and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the LORD God amongst the trees of the garden.
Genesis 3:9	And the LORD God called unto Adam, and said unto him, 

Genesis 3:10	And he said,


Genesis 3:11	And he said,


Genesis 3:12	And the man said, 


Genesis 3:13	And the LORD God said unto the woman,

And the woman said, 

Genesis 3:14	And the LORD God said unto the serpent,

Genesis 3:16	Unto the woman he said,

Genesis 3:17	And unto Adam he said,

Genesis 3:20	And Adam called his wife’s name Eve; because she was the mother of all living.
Genesis 3:21	Unto Adam also and to his wife did the LORD God make coats of skins, and clothed them.
Genesis 3:22	And the LORD God said,


Genesis 3:23	Therefore the LORD God sent him forth from the garden of Eden, to till the ground from whence he was taken.
Genesis 3:24	So he drove out the man; and he placed at the east of the garden of Eden Cherubims, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keep the way of the tree of life.
Genesis 4:1	And Adam knew Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bare Cain, and said, I have gotten a man from the LORD.
Genesis 4:2	And she again bare his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground.
Genesis 4:3	And in process of time it came to pass, that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the LORD.
Genesis 4:4	And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat thereof. And the LORD had respect unto Abel and to his offering:
Genesis 4:5	But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell.
Genesis 4:6	And the LORD said unto Cain,

Genesis 4:8	And Cain talked with Abel his brother: and it came to pass, when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and slew him.
Genesis 4:9	And the LORD said unto Cain,

And he said,

Genesis 4:10	And he said,

Genesis 4:13	And Cain said unto the LORD,

Genesis 4:15	And the LORD said unto him,

And the LORD set a mark upon Cain, lest any finding him should kill him.
Genesis 4:16	And Cain went out from the presence of the LORD, and dwelt in the land of Nod, on the east of Eden.
Genesis 4:17	And Cain knew his wife; and she conceived, and bare Enoch: and he builded a city, and called the name of the city, after the name of his son, Enoch.
Genesis 4:18	And unto Enoch was born Irad: and Irad begat Mehujael: and Mehujael begat Methusael: and Methusael begat Lamech.
Genesis 4:19	And Lamech took unto him two wives: the name of the one [was] Adah, and the name of the other Zillah.
Genesis 4:20	And Adah bare Jabal: he was the father of such as dwell in tents, and [of such as have] cattle.
Genesis 4:21	And his brother’s name [was] Jubal: he was the father of all such as handle the harp and organ.
Genesis 4:22	And Zillah, she also bare Tubalcain, an instructer of every artificer in brass and iron: and the sister of Tubalcain [was] Naamah.
Genesis 4:23	And Lamech said unto his wives, Adah and Zillah,

Genesis 4:25	And Adam knew his wife again; and she bare a son, and called his name Seth:

Genesis 4:26	And to Seth, to him also there was born a son; and he called his name Enos: then began men to call upon the name of the LORD.
Genesis 5:1	This [is] the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that God created man, in the likeness of God made he him;
Genesis 5:2	Male and female created he them; and blessed them, and called their name Adam, in the day when they were created.
Genesis 5:3	And Adam lived an hundred and thirty years, and begat [a son] in his own likeness, after his image; and called his name Seth:
Genesis 5:4	And the days of Adam after he had begotten Seth were eight hundred years: and he begat sons and daughters:
Genesis 5:5	And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years: and he died.
Genesis 5:6	And Seth lived an hundred and five years, and begat Enos:
Genesis 5:7	And Seth lived after he begat Enos eight hundred and seven years, and begat sons and daughters:
Genesis 5:8	And all the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years: and he died.
Genesis 5:9	And Enos lived ninety years, and begat Cainan:
Genesis 5:10	And Enos lived after he begat Cainan eight hundred and fifteen years, and begat sons and daughters:
Genesis 5:11	And all the days of Enos were nine hundred and five years: and he died.
Genesis 5:12	And Cainan lived seventy years, and begat Mahalaleel:
Genesis 5:13	And Cainan lived after he begat Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty years, and begat sons and daughters:
Genesis 5:14	And all the days of Cainan were nine hundred and ten years: and he died.
Genesis 5:15	And Mahalaleel lived sixty and five years, and begat Jared:
Genesis 5:16	And Mahalaleel lived after he begat Jared eight hundred and thirty years, and begat sons and daughters:
Genesis 5:17	And all the days of Mahalaleel were eight hundred ninety and five years: and he died.
Genesis 5:18	And Jared lived an hundred sixty and two years, and he begat Enoch:
Genesis 5:19	And Jared lived after he begat Enoch eight hundred years, and begat sons and daughters:
Genesis 5:20	And all the days of Jared were nine hundred sixty and two years: and he died.
Genesis 5:21	And Enoch lived sixty and five years, and begat Methuselah:
Genesis 5:22	And Enoch walked with God after he begat Methuselah three hundred years, and begat sons and daughters:
Genesis 5:23	And all the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty and five years:
Genesis 5:24	And Enoch walked with God: and he [was] not; for God took him.
Genesis 5:25	And Methuselah lived an hundred eighty and seven years, and begat Lamech:
Genesis 5:26	And Methuselah lived after he begat Lamech seven hundred eighty and two years, and begat sons and daughters:
Genesis 5:27	And all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred sixty and nine years: and he died.
Genesis 5:28	And Lamech lived an hundred eighty and two years, and begat a son:
Genesis 5:29	And he called his name Noah, saying, This [same] shall comfort us concerning our work and toil of our hands, because of the ground which the LORD hath cursed.
Genesis 5:30	And Lamech lived after he begat Noah five hundred ninety and five years, and begat sons and daughters:
Genesis 5:31	And all the days of Lamech were seven hundred seventy and seven years: and he died.
Genesis 5:32	And Noah was five hundred years old: and Noah begat Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
Genesis 6:1	And it came to pass, when men began to multiply on the face of the earth, and daughters were born unto them,
Genesis 6:2	That the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they [were] fair; and they took them wives of all which they chose.
Genesis 6:3	And the LORD said, 

Genesis 6:4	There were giants in the earth in those days; and also after that, when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they bare [children] to them, the same [became] mighty men which [were] of old, men of renown.
Genesis 6:5	And GOD saw that the wickedness of man [was] great in the earth, and [that] every imagination of the thoughts of his heart [was] only evil continually.
Genesis 6:6	And it repented the LORD that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart.
Genesis 6:7	And the LORD said,

Genesis 6:8	But Noah found grace in the eyes of the LORD.
Genesis 6:9	These [are] the generations of Noah: Noah was a just man [and] perfect in his generations, [and] Noah walked with God.
Genesis 6:10	And Noah begat three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
Genesis 6:11	The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence.
Genesis 6:12	And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was corrupt; for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth.
Genesis 6:13	And God said unto Noah,

Genesis 6:22	Thus did Noah; according to all that God commanded him, so did he.
Genesis 7:1	And the LORD said unto Noah,

Genesis 7:5	And Noah did according unto all that the LORD commanded him.
Genesis 7:6	And Noah [was] six hundred years old when the flood of waters was upon the earth.
Genesis 7:7	And Noah went in, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons’ wives with him, into the ark, because of the waters of the flood.
Genesis 7:8	Of clean beasts, and of beasts that [are] not clean, and of fowls, and of every thing that creepeth upon the earth,
Genesis 7:9	There went in two and two unto Noah into the ark, the male and the female, as God had commanded Noah.
Genesis 7:10	And it came to pass after seven days, that the waters of the flood were upon the earth.
Genesis 7:11	In the six hundredth year of Noah’s life, in the second month, the seventeenth day of the month, the same day were all the fountains of the great deep broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened.
Genesis 7:12	And the rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights.
Genesis 7:13	In the selfsame day entered Noah, and Shem, and Ham, and Japheth, the sons of Noah, and Noah’s wife, and the three wives of his sons with them, into the ark;
Genesis 7:14	They, and every beast after his kind, and all the cattle after their kind, and every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth after his kind, and every fowl after his kind, every bird of every sort.
Genesis 7:15	And they went in unto Noah into the ark, two and two of all flesh, wherein [is] the breath of life.
Genesis 7:16	And they that went in, went in male and female of all flesh, as God had commanded him: and the LORD shut him in.
Genesis 7:17	And the flood was forty days upon the earth; and the waters increased, and bare up the ark, and it was lift up above the earth.
Genesis 7:18	And the waters prevailed, and were increased greatly upon the earth; and the ark went upon the face of the waters.
Genesis 7:19	And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth; and all the high hills, that [were] under the whole heaven, were covered.
Genesis 7:20	Fifteen cubits upward did the waters prevail; and the mountains were covered.
Genesis 7:21	And all flesh died that moved upon the earth, both of fowl, and of cattle, and of beast, and of every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth, and every man:
Genesis 7:22	All in whose nostrils [was] the breath of life, of all that [was] in the dry [land], died.
Genesis 7:23	And every living substance was destroyed which was upon the face of the ground, both man, and cattle, and the creeping things, and the fowl of the heaven; and they were destroyed from the earth: and Noah only remained [alive], and they that [were] with him in the ark.
Genesis 7:24	And the waters prevailed upon the earth an hundred and fifty days.
Genesis 8:1	And God remembered Noah, and every living thing, and all the cattle that [was] with him in the ark: and God made a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters asswaged;
Genesis 8:2	The fountains also of the deep and the windows of heaven were stopped, and the rain from heaven was restrained;
Genesis 8:3	And the waters returned from off the earth continually: and after the end of the hundred and fifty days the waters were abated.
Genesis 8:4	And the ark rested in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, upon the mountains of Ararat.
Genesis 8:5	And the waters decreased continually until the tenth month: in the tenth [month], on the first [day] of the month, were the tops of the mountains seen.
Genesis 8:6	And it came to pass at the end of forty days, that Noah opened the window of the ark which he had made:
Genesis 8:7	And he sent forth a raven, which went forth to and fro, until the waters were dried up from off the earth.
Genesis 8:8	Also he sent forth a dove from him, to see if the waters were abated from off the face of the ground;
Genesis 8:9	But the dove found no rest for the sole of her foot, and she returned unto him into the ark, for the waters [were] on the face of the whole earth: then he put forth his hand, and took her, and pulled her in unto him into the ark.
Genesis 8:10	And he stayed yet other seven days; and again he sent forth the dove out of the ark;
Genesis 8:11	And the dove came in to him in the evening; and, lo, in her mouth [was] an olive leaf pluckt off: so Noah knew that the waters were abated from off the earth.
Genesis 8:12	And he stayed yet other seven days; and sent forth the dove; which returned not again unto him any more.
Genesis 8:13	And it came to pass in the six hundredth and first year, in the first [month], the first [day] of the month, the waters were dried up from off the earth: and Noah removed the covering of the ark, and looked, and, behold, the face of the ground was dry.
Genesis 8:14	And in the second month, on the seven and twentieth day of the month, was the earth dried.
Genesis 8:15	And God spake unto Noah, saying,

Genesis 8:18	And Noah went forth, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons’ wives with him:
Genesis 8:19	Every beast, every creeping thing, and every fowl, [and] whatsoever creepeth upon the earth, after their kinds, went forth out of the ark.
Genesis 8:20	And Noah builded an altar unto the LORD; and took of every clean beast, and of every clean fowl, and offered burnt offerings on the altar.
Genesis 8:21	And the LORD smelled a sweet savour; and the LORD said in his heart,

Genesis 9:1	And God blessed Noah and his sons, and said unto them,

Genesis 9:8	And God spake unto Noah, and to his sons with him, saying,

Genesis 9:18	And the sons of Noah, that went forth of the ark, were Shem, and Ham, and Japheth: and Ham [is] the father of Canaan.
Genesis 9:19	These [are] the three sons of Noah: and of them was the whole earth overspread.
Genesis 9:20	And Noah began [to be] an husbandman, and he planted a vineyard:
Genesis 9:21	And he drank of the wine, and was drunken; and he was uncovered within his tent.
Genesis 9:22	And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brethren without.
Genesis 9:23	And Shem and Japheth took a garment, and laid [it] upon both their shoulders, and went backward, and covered the nakedness of their father; and their faces [were] backward, and they saw not their father’s nakedness.
Genesis 9:24	And Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what his younger son had done unto him.
Genesis 9:25	And he said,


Genesis 9:28	And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years.
Genesis 9:29	And all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years: and he died.
Genesis 10:1	Now these [are] the generations of the sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth: and unto them were sons born after the flood.
Genesis 10:2	The sons of Japheth; Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.
Genesis 10:3	And the sons of Gomer; Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.
Genesis 10:4	And the sons of Javan; Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim.
Genesis 10:5	By these were the isles of the Gentiles divided in their lands; every one after his tongue, after their families, in their nations.
Genesis 10:6	And the sons of Ham; Cush, and Mizraim, and Phut, and Canaan.
Genesis 10:7	And the sons of Cush; Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabtecha: and the sons of Raamah; Sheba, and Dedan.
Genesis 10:8	And Cush begat Nimrod: he began to be a mighty one in the earth.
Genesis 10:9	He was a mighty hunter before the LORD: wherefore it is said, Even as Nimrod the mighty hunter before the LORD.
Genesis 10:10	And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel, and Erech, and Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.
Genesis 10:11	Out of that land went forth Asshur, and builded Nineveh, and the city Rehoboth, and Calah,
Genesis 10:12	And Resen between Nineveh and Calah: the same [is] a great city.
Genesis 10:13	And Mizraim begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,
Genesis 10:14	And Pathrusim, and Casluhim, (out of whom came Philistim,) and Caphtorim.
Genesis 10:15	And Canaan begat Sidon his firstborn, and Heth,
Genesis 10:16	And the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgasite,
Genesis 10:17	And the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite,
Genesis 10:18	And the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite: and afterward were the families of the Canaanites spread abroad.
Genesis 10:19	And the border of the Canaanites was from Sidon, as thou comest to Gerar, unto Gaza; as thou goest, unto Sodom, and Gomorrah, and Admah, and Zeboim, even unto Lasha.
Genesis 10:20	These [are] the sons of Ham, after their families, after their tongues, in their countries, [and] in their nations.
Genesis 10:21	Unto Shem also, the father of all the children of Eber, the brother of Japheth the elder, even to him were [children] born.
Genesis 10:22	The children of Shem; Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram.
Genesis 10:23	And the children of Aram; Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash.
Genesis 10:24	And Arphaxad begat Salah; and Salah begat Eber.
Genesis 10:25	And unto Eber were born two sons: the name of one [was] Peleg; for in his days was the earth divided; and his brother’s name [was] Joktan.
Genesis 10:26	And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah,
Genesis 10:27	And Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah,
Genesis 10:28	And Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba,
Genesis 10:29	And Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab: all these [were] the sons of Joktan.
Genesis 10:30	And their dwelling was from Mesha, as thou goest unto Sephar a mount of the east.
Genesis 10:31	These [are] the sons of Shem, after their families, after their tongues, in their lands, after their nations.
Genesis 10:32	These [are] the families of the sons of Noah, after their generations, in their nations: and by these were the nations divided in the earth after the flood.
Genesis 11:1	And the whole earth was of one language, and of one speech.
Genesis 11:2	And it came to pass, as they journeyed from the east, that they found a plain in the land of Shinar; and they dwelt there.
Genesis 11:3	And they said one to another, Go to, let us make brick, and burn them throughly. And they had brick for stone, and slime had they for morter.
Genesis 11:4	And they said, Go to, let us build us a city and a tower, whose top [may reach] unto heaven; and let us make us a name, lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth.
Genesis 11:5	And the LORD came down to see the city and the tower, which the children of men builded.
Genesis 11:6	And the LORD said,

Genesis 11:8	So the LORD scattered them abroad from thence upon the face of all the earth: and they left off to build the city.
Genesis 11:9	Therefore is the name of it called Babel; because the LORD did there confound the language of all the earth: and from thence did the LORD scatter them abroad upon the face of all the earth.
Genesis 11:10	These [are] the generations of Shem: Shem [was] an hundred years old, and begat Arphaxad two years after the flood:
Genesis 11:11	And Shem lived after he begat Arphaxad five hundred years, and begat sons and daughters.
Genesis 11:12	And Arphaxad lived five and thirty years, and begat Salah:
Genesis 11:13	And Arphaxad lived after he begat Salah four hundred and three years, and begat sons and daughters.
Genesis 11:14	And Salah lived thirty years, and begat Eber:
Genesis 11:15	And Salah lived after he begat Eber four hundred and three years, and begat sons and daughters.
Genesis 11:16	And Eber lived four and thirty years, and begat Peleg:
Genesis 11:17	And Eber lived after he begat Peleg four hundred and thirty years, and begat sons and daughters.
Genesis 11:18	And Peleg lived thirty years, and begat Reu:
Genesis 11:19	And Peleg lived after he begat Reu two hundred and nine years, and begat sons and daughters.
Genesis 11:20	And Reu lived two and thirty years, and begat Serug:
Genesis 11:21	And Reu lived after he begat Serug two hundred and seven years, and begat sons and daughters.
Genesis 11:22	And Serug lived thirty years, and begat Nahor:
Genesis 11:23	And Serug lived after he begat Nahor two hundred years, and begat sons and daughters.
Genesis 11:24	And Nahor lived nine and twenty years, and begat Terah:
Genesis 11:25	And Nahor lived after he begat Terah an hundred and nineteen years, and begat sons and daughters.
Genesis 11:26	And Terah lived seventy years, and begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran.
Genesis 11:27	Now these [are] the generations of Terah: Terah begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran; and Haran begat Lot.
Genesis 11:28	And Haran died before his father Terah in the land of his nativity, in Ur of the Chaldees.
Genesis 11:29	And Abram and Nahor took them wives: the name of Abram’s wife [was] Sarai; and the name of Nahor’s wife, Milcah, the daughter of Haran, the father of Milcah, and the father of Iscah.
Genesis 11:30	But Sarai was barren; she [had] no child.
Genesis 11:31	And Terah took Abram his son, and Lot the son of Haran his son’s son, and Sarai his daughter in law, his son Abram’s wife; and they went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees, to go into the land of Canaan; and they came unto Haran, and dwelt there.
Genesis 11:32	And the days of Terah were two hundred and five years: and Terah died in Haran.
Genesis 12:1	Now the LORD had said unto Abram, 

Genesis 12:4	So Abram departed, as the LORD had spoken unto him; and Lot went with him: and Abram [was] seventy and five years old when he departed out of Haran.
Genesis 12:5	And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother’s son, and all their substance that they had gathered, and the souls that they had gotten in Haran; and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan; and into the land of Canaan they came.
Genesis 12:6	And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Sichem, unto the plain of Moreh. And the Canaanite [was] then in the land.
Genesis 12:7	And the LORD appeared unto Abram, and said,


and there builded he an altar unto the LORD, who appeared unto him.
Genesis 12:8	And he removed from thence unto a mountain on the east of Bethel, and pitched his tent, [having] Bethel on the west, and Hai on the east: and there he builded an altar unto the LORD, and called upon the name of the LORD.
Genesis 12:9	And Abram journeyed, going on still toward the south.
Genesis 12:10	And there was a famine in the land: and Abram went down into Egypt to sojourn there; for the famine [was] grievous in the land.
Genesis 12:11	And it came to pass, when he was come near to enter into Egypt, that he said unto Sarai his wife,

Genesis 12:14	And it came to pass, that, when Abram was come into Egypt, the Egyptians beheld the woman that she [was] very fair.
Genesis 12:15	The princes also of Pharaoh saw her, and commended her before Pharaoh: and the woman was taken into Pharaoh’s house.
Genesis 12:16	And he entreated Abram well for her sake: and he had sheep, and oxen, and he asses, and menservants, and maidservants, and she asses, and camels.
Genesis 12:17	And the LORD plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai Abram’s wife.
Genesis 12:18	And Pharaoh called Abram, and said, What [is] this [that] thou hast done unto me? why didst thou not tell me that she [was] thy wife?
Genesis 12:19	Why saidst thou, She [is] my sister? so I might have taken her to me to wife: now therefore behold thy wife, take [her], and go thy way.
Genesis 12:20	And Pharaoh commanded [his] men concerning him: and they sent him away, and his wife, and all that he had.
Genesis 13:1	And Abram went up out of Egypt, he, and his wife, and all that he had, and Lot with him, into the south.
Genesis 13:2	And Abram [was] very rich in cattle, in silver, and in gold.
Genesis 13:3	And he went on his journeys from the south even to Bethel, unto the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and Hai;
Genesis 13:4	Unto the place of the altar, which he had made there at the first: and there Abram called on the name of the LORD.
Genesis 13:5	And Lot also, which went with Abram, had flocks, and herds, and tents.
Genesis 13:6	And the land was not able to bear them, that they might dwell together: for their substance was great, so that they could not dwell together.
Genesis 13:7	And there was a strife between the herdmen of Abram’s cattle and the herdmen of Lot’s cattle: and the Canaanite and the Perizzite dwelled then in the land.
Genesis 13:8	And Abram said unto Lot,


Genesis 13:10	And Lot lifted up his eyes, and beheld all the plain of Jordan, that it [was] well watered every where, before the LORD destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, [even] as the garden of the LORD, like the land of Egypt, as thou comest unto Zoar.
Genesis 13:11	Then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan; and Lot journeyed east: and they separated themselves the one from the other.
Genesis 13:12	Abram dwelled in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelled in the cities of the plain, and pitched [his] tent toward Sodom.
Genesis 13:13	But the men of Sodom [were] wicked and sinners before the LORD exceedingly.
Genesis 13:14	And the LORD said unto Abram, 

Genesis 13:18	Then Abram removed [his] tent, and came and dwelt in the plain of Mamre, which [is] in Hebron, and built there an altar unto the LORD.
Genesis 14:1	And it came to pass in the days of Amraphel king of Shinar, Arioch king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of nations;
Genesis 14:2	[That these] made war with Bera king of Sodom, and with Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, and Shemeber king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela, which is Zoar.
Genesis 14:3	All these were joined together in the vale of Siddim, which is the salt sea.
Genesis 14:4	Twelve years they served Chedorlaomer, and in the thirteenth year they rebelled.
Genesis 14:5	And in the fourteenth year came Chedorlaomer, and the kings that [were] with him, and smote the Rephaims in Ashteroth Karnaim, and the Zuzims in Ham, and the Emims in Shaveh Kiriathaim,
Genesis 14:6	And the Horites in their mount Seir, unto Elparan, which [is] by the wilderness.
Genesis 14:7	And they returned, and came to Enmishpat, which [is] Kadesh, and smote all the country of the Amalekites, and also the Amorites, that dwelt in Hazezontamar.
Genesis 14:8	And there went out the king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrah, and the king of Admah, and the king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (the same [is] Zoar;) and they joined battle with them in the vale of Siddim;
Genesis 14:9	With Chedorlaomer the king of Elam, and with Tidal king of nations, and Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar; four kings with five.
Genesis 14:10	And the vale of Siddim [was full of] slimepits; and the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled, and fell there; and they that remained fled to the mountain.
Genesis 14:11	And they took all the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah, and all their victuals, and went their way.
Genesis 14:12	And they took Lot, Abram’s brother’s son, who dwelt in Sodom, and his goods, and departed.
Genesis 14:13	And there came one that had escaped, and told Abram the Hebrew; for he dwelt in the plain of Mamre the Amorite, brother of Eshcol, and brother of Aner: and these [were] confederate with Abram.
Genesis 14:14	And when Abram heard that his brother was taken captive, he armed his trained [servants], born in his own house, three hundred and eighteen, and pursued [them] unto Dan.
Genesis 14:15	And he divided himself against them, he and his servants, by night, and smote them, and pursued them unto Hobah, which [is] on the left hand of Damascus.
Genesis 14:16	And he brought back all the goods, and also brought again his brother Lot, and his goods, and the women also, and the people.
Genesis 14:17	And the king of Sodom went out to meet him after his return from the slaughter of Chedorlaomer, and of the kings that [were] with him, at the valley of Shaveh, which [is] the king’s dale.
Genesis 14:18	And Melchizedek king of Salem brought forth bread and wine: and he [was] the priest of the most high God.
Genesis 14:19	And he blessed him, and said, Blessed [be] Abram of the most high God, possessor of heaven and earth:
Genesis 14:20	And blessed be the most high God, which hath delivered thine enemies into thy hand. And he gave him tithes of all.
Genesis 14:21	And the king of Sodom said unto Abram, Give me the persons, and take the goods to thyself.
Genesis 14:22	And Abram said to the king of Sodom,

Genesis 15:1	After these things the word of the LORD came unto Abram in a vision, saying, 

enesis 15:3	And Abram said,


Genesis 15:4	And, behold, the word of the LORD [came] unto him, saying,


Genesis 15:5	And he brought him forth abroad, and said,

Genesis 15:6	And he believed in the LORD; and he counted it to him for righteousness.
Genesis 15:7	And he said unto him,


Genesis 15:6	And he believed in the LORD; and he counted it to him for righteousness.
Genesis 15:7	And he said unto him,

Genesis 15:8	And he said, Lord GOD, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit it?
Genesis 15:9	And he said unto him,


Genesis 15:10	And he took unto him all these, and divided them in the midst, and laid each piece one against another: but the birds divided he not.
Genesis 15:11	And when the fowls came down upon the carcases, Abram drove them away.
Genesis 15:12	And when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram; and, lo, an horror of great darkness fell upon him.
Genesis 15:13	And he said unto Abram, 

Genesis 15:17	And it came to pass, that, when the sun went down, and it was dark, behold a smoking furnace, and a burning lamp that passed between those pieces.
Genesis 15:18	In the same day the LORD made a covenant with Abram, saying,

Genesis 16:1	Now Sarai Abram’s wife bare him no children: and she had an handmaid, an Egyptian, whose name [was] Hagar.
Genesis 16:2	And Sarai said unto Abram, 

And Abram hearkened to the voice of Sarai.
Genesis 16:3	And Sarai Abram’s wife took Hagar her maid the Egyptian, after Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan, and gave her to her husband Abram to be his wife.
Genesis 16:4	And he went in unto Hagar, and she conceived: and when she saw that she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her eyes.
Genesis 16:5	And Sarai said unto Abram,


Genesis 16:6	But Abram said unto Sarai,

And when Sarai dealt hardly with her, she fled from her face.
Genesis 16:7	And the angel of the LORD found her by a fountain of water in the wilderness, by the fountain in the way to Shur.
Genesis 16:8	And he said,

And she said, I flee from the face of my mistress Sarai.

Genesis 16:9	And the angel of the LORD said unto her, 

Genesis 16:10	And the angel of the LORD said unto her,

Genesis 16:11	And the angel of the LORD said unto her,

Genesis 16:13	And she called the name of the LORD that spake unto her, Thou God seest me: for she said, Have I also here looked after him that seeth me?
Genesis 16:14	Wherefore the well was called Beerlahairoi; behold, [it is] between Kadesh and Bered.
Genesis 16:15	And Hagar bare Abram a son: and Abram called his son’s name, which Hagar bare, Ishmael.
Genesis 16:16	And Abram [was] fourscore and six years old, when Hagar bare Ishmael to Abram.
Genesis 17:1	And when Abram was ninety years old and nine, the LORD appeared to Abram, and said unto him,

Genesis 17:3	And Abram fell on his face: and God talked with him, saying,

Genesis 17:9	And God said unto Abraham, 

Genesis 17:15	And God said unto Abraham,


Genesis 17:18	And Abraham said unto God, 

Genesis 17:19	And God said,

Genesis 17:22	And he left off talking with him, and God went up from Abraham.
Genesis 17:23	And Abraham took Ishmael his son, and all that were born in his house, and all that were bought with his money, every male among the men of Abraham’s house; and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin in the selfsame day, as God had said unto him.
Genesis 17:24	And Abraham [was] ninety years old and nine, when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
Genesis 17:25	And Ishmael his son [was] thirteen years old, when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
Genesis 17:26	In the selfsame day was Abraham circumcised, and Ishmael his son.
Genesis 17:27	And all the men of his house, born in the house, and bought with money of the stranger, were circumcised with him.
Genesis 18:1	And the LORD appeared unto him in the plains of Mamre: and he sat in the tent door in the heat of the day;
Genesis 18:2	And he lift up his eyes and looked, and, lo, three men stood by him: and when he saw [them], he ran to meet them from the tent door, and bowed himself toward the ground,


Genesis 18:6	And Abraham hastened into the tent unto Sarah, and said,

Genesis 18:7	And Abraham ran unto the herd, and fetcht a calf tender and good, and gave [it] unto a young man; and he hasted to dress it.
Genesis 18:8	And he took butter, and milk, and the calf which he had dressed, and set [it] before them; and he stood by them under the tree, and they did eat.
Genesis 18:9	And they said unto him, 

 And he said, 

 And Sarah heard [it] in the tent door, which [was] behind him.
Genesis 18:11	Now Abraham and Sarah [were] old [and] well stricken in age; [and] it ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women.
Genesis 18:12	Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I am waxed old shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also?
Genesis 18:13	And the LORD said unto Abraham, 

Genesis 18:15	Then Sarah denied, saying, 


for she was afraid. And he said,
Genesis 18:16	And the men rose up from thence, and looked toward Sodom: and Abraham went with them to bring them on the way.
Genesis 18:17	And the LORD said,

Genesis 18:20	And the LORD said,

Genesis 18:22	And the men turned their faces from thence, and went toward Sodom: but Abraham stood yet before the LORD.
Genesis 18:23	And Abraham drew near, and said, 

Genesis 18:26	And the LORD said, 

Genesis 18:27	And Abraham answered and said,


Genesis 18:30	And he said [unto him], 

Genesis 18:33	And the LORD went his way, as soon as he had left communing with Abraham: and Abraham returned unto his place.
Genesis 19:1	And there came two angels to Sodom at even; and Lot sat in the gate of Sodom: and Lot seeing [them] rose up to meet them; and he bowed himself with his face toward the ground;
Genesis 19:2	And he said,

Genesis 19:3	And he pressed upon them greatly; and they turned in unto him, and entered into his house; and he made them a feast, and did bake unleavened bread, and they did eat.
Genesis 19:4	But before they lay down, the men of the city, [even] the men of Sodom, compassed the house round, both old and young, all the people from every quarter:
Genesis 19:5	And they called unto Lot, and said unto him, Where [are] the men which came in to thee this night? bring them out unto us, that we may know them.
Genesis 19:6	And Lot went out at the door unto them, and shut the door after him,
Genesis 19:7	And said,

Genesis 19:9	And they said, Stand back. And they said [again], This one [fellow] came in to sojourn, and he will needs be a judge: now will we deal worse with thee, than with them. And they pressed sore upon the man, [even] Lot, and came near to break the door.
Genesis 19:10	But the men put forth their hand, and pulled Lot into the house to them, and shut to the door.
Genesis 19:11	And they smote the men that [were] at the door of the house with blindness, both small and great: so that they wearied themselves to find the door.
Genesis 19:12	And the men said unto Lot,

Genesis 19:14	And Lot went out, and spake unto his sons in law, which married his daughters, and said, Up, get you out of this place; for the LORD will destroy this city. But he seemed as one that mocked unto his sons in law.
Genesis 19:15	And when the morning arose, then the angels hastened Lot, saying,

Genesis 19:16	And while he lingered, the men laid hold upon his hand, and upon the hand of his wife, and upon the hand of his two daughters; the LORD being merciful unto him: and they brought him forth, and set him without the city.
Genesis 19:17	And it came to pass, when they had brought them forth abroad, that he said,

Genesis 19:18	And Lot said unto them, 

Genesis 19:21	And he said unto him, 


Genesis 19:23	The sun was risen upon the earth when Lot entered into Zoar.
Genesis 19:24	Then the LORD rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and fire from the LORD out of heaven;
Genesis 19:25	And he overthrew those cities, and all the plain, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and that which grew upon the ground.
Genesis 19:26	But his wife looked back from behind him, and she became a pillar of salt.
Genesis 19:27	And Abraham gat up early in the morning to the place where he stood before the LORD:
Genesis 19:28	And he looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah, and toward all the land of the plain, and beheld, and, lo, the smoke of the country went up as the smoke of a furnace.
Genesis 19:29	And it came to pass, when God destroyed the cities of the plain, that God remembered Abraham, and sent Lot out of the midst of the overthrow, when he overthrew the cities in the which Lot dwelt.
Genesis 19:30	And Lot went up out of Zoar, and dwelt in the mountain, and his two daughters with him; for he feared to dwell in Zoar: and he dwelt in a cave, he and his two daughters.
Genesis 19:31	And the firstborn said unto the younger, Our father [is] old, and [there is] not a man in the earth to come in unto us after the manner of all the earth:
Genesis 19:32	Come, let us make our father drink wine, and we will lie with him, that we may preserve seed of our father.
Genesis 19:33	And they made their father drink wine that night: and the firstborn went in, and lay with her father; and he perceived not when she lay down, nor when she arose.
Genesis 19:34	And it came to pass on the morrow, that the firstborn said unto the younger, Behold, I lay yesternight with my father: let us make him drink wine this night also; and go thou in, [and] lie with him, that we may preserve seed of our father.
Genesis 19:35	And they made their father drink wine that night also: and the younger arose, and lay with him; and he perceived not when she lay down, nor when she arose.
Genesis 19:36	Thus were both the daughters of Lot with child by their father.
Genesis 19:37	And the firstborn bare a son, and called his name Moab: the same [is] the father of the Moabites unto this day.
Genesis 19:38	And the younger, she also bare a son, and called his name Benammi: the same [is] the father of the children of Ammon unto this day.
Genesis 20:1	And Abraham journeyed from thence toward the south country, and dwelled between Kadesh and Shur, and sojourned in Gerar.
Genesis 20:2	And Abraham said of Sarah his wife,


and Abimelech king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah.
Genesis 20:3	But God came to Abimelech in a dream by night, and said to him, 

Genesis 20:4	But Abimelech had not come near her: and he said,
Genesis 20:6	And God said unto him in a dream,

Genesis 20:8	Therefore Abimelech rose early in the morning, and called all his servants, and told all these things in their ears: and the men were sore afraid.
Genesis 20:9	Then Abimelech called Abraham, and said unto him,

Genesis 20:10	And Abimelech said unto Abraham,

Genesis 20:11	And Abraham said,

Genesis 20:14	And Abimelech took sheep, and oxen, and menservants, and womenservants, and gave [them] unto Abraham, and restored him Sarah his wife.
Genesis 20:15	And Abimelech said,

Genesis 20:16	And unto Sarah he said,

Genesis 20:17	So Abraham prayed unto God: and God healed Abimelech, and his wife, and his maidservants; and they bare [children].
Genesis 20:18	For the LORD had fast closed up all the wombs of the house of Abimelech, because of Sarah Abraham’s wife.
Genesis 21:1	And the LORD visited Sarah as he had said, and the LORD did unto Sarah as he had spoken.
Genesis 21:2	For Sarah conceived, and bare Abraham a son in his old age, at the set time of which God had spoken to him.
Genesis 21:3	And Abraham called the name of his son that was born unto him, whom Sarah bare to him, Isaac.
Genesis 21:4	And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac being eight days old, as God had commanded him.
Genesis 21:5	And Abraham was an hundred years old, when his son Isaac was born unto him.
Genesis 21:6	And Sarah said,

Genesis 21:7	And she said,

Genesis 21:8	And the child grew, and was weaned: and Abraham made a great feast the [same] day that Isaac was weaned.
Genesis 21:9	And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, which she had born unto Abraham, mocking.
Genesis 21:10	Wherefore she said unto Abraham,

Genesis 21:11	And the thing was very grievous in Abraham’s sight because of his son.
Genesis 21:12	And God said unto Abraham,

Genesis 21:14	And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and took bread, and a bottle of water, and gave [it] unto Hagar, putting [it] on her shoulder, and the child, and sent her away: and she departed, and wandered in the wilderness of Beersheba.
Genesis 21:15	And the water was spent in the bottle, and she cast the child under one of the shrubs.
Genesis 21:16	And she went, and sat her down over against [him] a good way off, as it were a bowshot: for she said, Let me not see the death of the child. And she sat over against [him], and lift up her voice, and wept.
Genesis 21:17	And God heard the voice of the lad; and the angel of God called to Hagar out of heaven, and said unto her,

Genesis 21:19	And God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water; and she went, and filled the bottle with water, and gave the lad drink.
Genesis 21:20	And God was with the lad; and he grew, and dwelt in the wilderness, and became an archer.
Genesis 21:21	And he dwelt in the wilderness of Paran: and his mother took him a wife out of the land of Egypt.
Genesis 21:22	And it came to pass at that time, that Abimelech and Phichol the chief captain of his host spake unto Abraham, saying,


Genesis 21:24	And Abraham said, 

Genesis 21:25	And Abraham reproved Abimelech because of a well of water, which Abimelech’s servants had violently taken away.
Genesis 21:26	And Abimelech said,

Genesis 21:27	And Abraham took sheep and oxen, and gave them unto Abimelech; and both of them made a covenant.
Genesis 21:28	And Abraham set seven ewe lambs of the flock by themselves.
Genesis 21:29	And Abimelech said unto Abraham,

Genesis 21:30	And he said, 

Genesis 21:31	Wherefore he called that place Beersheba; because there they sware both of them.
Genesis 21:32	Thus they made a covenant at Beersheba: then Abimelech rose up, and Phichol the chief captain of his host, and they returned into the land of the Philistines.
Genesis 21:33	And [Abraham] planted a grove in Beersheba, and called there on the name of the LORD, the everlasting God.
Genesis 21:34	And Abraham sojourned in the Philistines’ land many days.
Genesis 21:33	And [Abraham] planted a grove in Beersheba, and called there on the name of the LORD, the everlasting God.
Genesis 21:34	And Abraham sojourned in the Philistines’ land many days.
Genesis 22:1	And it came to pass after these things, that God did tempt Abraham, and said unto him, Abraham: and he said, Behold, [here] I [am].
Genesis 22:2	And he said,

Genesis 22:3	And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and saddled his ass, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son, and clave the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up, and went unto the place of which God had told him.
Genesis 22:4	Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes, and saw the place afar off.
Genesis 22:5	And Abraham said unto his young men,


Genesis 22:6	And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering, and laid [it] upon Isaac his son; and he took the fire in his hand, and a knife; and they went both of them together.
Genesis 22:7	And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father, and said, 

and he said,

And he said,

Genesis 22:8	And Abraham said,

Genesis 22:9	And they came to the place which God had told him of; and Abraham built an altar there, and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar upon the wood.
Genesis 22:10	And Abraham stretched forth his hand, and took the knife to slay his son.
Genesis 22:11	And the angel of the LORD called unto him out of heaven, and said, Abraham, Abraham: and he said, 

Genesis 22:12	And he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thou any thing unto him: for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only [son] from me.
Genesis 22:13	And Abraham lifted up his eyes, and looked, and behold behind [him] a ram caught in a thicket by his horns: and Abraham went and took the ram, and offered him up for a burnt offering in the stead of his son.
Genesis 22:14	And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovahjireh: as it is said [to] this day, In the mount of the LORD it shall be seen.
Genesis 22:15	And the angel of the LORD called unto Abraham out of heaven the second time,
Genesis 22:16	And said, 

Genesis 22:19	So Abraham returned unto his young men, and they rose up and went together to Beersheba; and Abraham dwelt at Beersheba.
Genesis 22:20	And it came to pass after these things, that it was told Abraham, saying, Behold, Milcah, she hath also born children unto thy brother Nahor;
Genesis 22:21	Huz his firstborn, and Buz his brother, and Kemuel the father of Aram,
Genesis 22:22	And Chesed, and Hazo, and Pildash, and Jidlaph, and Bethuel.
Genesis 22:23	And Bethuel begat Rebekah: these eight Milcah did bear to Nahor, Abraham’s brother.
Genesis 22:24	And his concubine, whose name [was] Reumah, she bare also Tebah, and Gaham, and Thahash, and Maachah.
Genesis 23:1	And Sarah was an hundred and seven and twenty years old: [these were] the years of the life of Sarah.
Genesis 23:2	And Sarah died in Kirjatharba; the same [is] Hebron in the land of Canaan: and Abraham came to mourn for Sarah, and to weep for her.
Genesis 23:3	And Abraham stood up from before his dead, and spake unto the sons of Heth, saying,

Genesis 23:5	And the children of Heth answered Abraham, saying unto him,
Genesis 23:6	Hear us, my lord: thou [art] a mighty prince among us: in the choice of our sepulchres bury thy dead; none of us shall withhold from thee his sepulchre, but that thou mayest bury thy dead.
Genesis 23:7	And Abraham stood up, and bowed himself to the people of the land, [even] to the children of Heth.
Genesis 23:8	And he communed with them, saying, 

Genesis 23:10	And Ephron dwelt among the children of Heth: and Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham in the audience of the children of Heth, [even] of all that went in at the gate of his city, saying,
Genesis 23:11	Nay, my lord, hear me: the field give I thee, and the cave that [is] therein, I give it thee; in the presence of the sons of my people give I it thee: bury thy dead.
Genesis 23:12	And Abraham bowed down himself before the people of the land.
Genesis 23:13	And he spake unto Ephron in the audience of the people of the land, saying,

Genesis 23:14	And Ephron answered Abraham, saying unto him,
Genesis 23:15	My lord, hearken unto me: the land [is worth] four hundred shekels of silver; what [is] that betwixt me and thee? bury therefore thy dead.
Genesis 23:16	And Abraham hearkened unto Ephron; and Abraham weighed to Ephron the silver, which he had named in the audience of the sons of Heth, four hundred shekels of silver, current [money] with the merchant.
Genesis 23:17	And the field of Ephron, which [was] in Machpelah, which [was] before Mamre, the field, and the cave which [was] therein, and all the trees that [were] in the field, that [were] in all the borders round about, were made sure
Genesis 23:18	Unto Abraham for a possession in the presence of the children of Heth, before all that went in at the gate of his city.
Genesis 23:19	And after this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the field of Machpelah before Mamre: the same [is] Hebron in the land of Canaan.
Genesis 23:20	And the field, and the cave that [is] therein, were made sure unto Abraham for a possession of a buryingplace by the sons of Heth.
Genesis 24:1	And Abraham was old, [and] well stricken in age: and the LORD had blessed Abraham in all things.
Genesis 24:2	And Abraham said unto his eldest servant of his house, that ruled over all that he had,

Genesis 24:5	And the servant said unto him, 
Genesis 24:6	And Abraham said unto him,


Genesis 24:9	And the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master, and sware to him concerning that matter.
Genesis 24:10	And the servant took ten camels of the camels of his master, and departed; for all the goods of his master [were] in his hand: and he arose, and went to Mesopotamia, unto the city of Nahor.
Genesis 24:11	And he made his camels to kneel down without the city by a well of water at the time of the evening, [even] the time that women go out to draw [water].
Genesis 24:12	And he said,

Genesis 24:15	And it came to pass, before he had done speaking, that, behold, Rebekah came out, who was born to Bethuel, son of Milcah, the wife of Nahor, Abraham’s brother, with her pitcher upon her shoulder.
Genesis 24:16	And the damsel [was] very fair to look upon, a virgin, neither had any man known her: and she went down to the well, and filled her pitcher, and came up.
Genesis 24:17	And the servant ran to meet her, and said,

Genesis 24:18	And she said,

and she hasted, and let down her pitcher upon her hand, and gave him drink.
Genesis 24:19	And when she had done giving him drink, she said,

Genesis 24:20	And she hasted, and emptied her pitcher into the trough, and ran again unto the well to draw [water], and drew for all his camels.
Genesis 24:21	And the man wondering at her held his peace, to wit whether the LORD had made his journey prosperous or not.
Genesis 24:22	And it came to pass, as the camels had done drinking, that the man took a golden earring of half a shekel weight, and two bracelets for her hands of ten [shekels] weight of gold;
Genesis 24:23	And said, 

Genesis 24:24	And she said unto him,

Genesis 24:25	She said moreover unto him,

Genesis 24:26	And the man bowed down his head, and worshipped the LORD.
Genesis 24:27	And he said,

Genesis 24:28	And the damsel ran, and told [them of] her mother’s house these things.
Genesis 24:29	And Rebekah had a brother, and his name [was] Laban: and Laban ran out unto the man, unto the well.
Genesis 24:30	And it came to pass, when he saw the earring and bracelets upon his sister’s hands, and when he heard the words of Rebekah his sister, saying, Thus spake the man unto me; that he came unto the man; and, behold, he stood by the camels at the well.
Genesis 24:31	And he said, Come in, thou blessed of the LORD; wherefore standest thou without? for I have prepared the house, and room for the camels.
Genesis 24:32	And the man came into the house: and he ungirded his camels, and gave straw and provender for the camels, and water to wash his feet, and the men’s feet that [were] with him.
Genesis 24:33	And there was set [meat] before him to eat: but he said, I will not eat, until I have told mine errand. And he said, Speak on.
Genesis 24:34	And he said, I [am] Abraham’s servant.
Genesis 24:35	And the LORD hath blessed my master greatly; and he is become great: and he hath given him flocks, and herds, and silver, and gold, and menservants, and maidservants, and camels, and asses.
Genesis 24:36	And Sarah my master’s wife bare a son to my master when she was old: and unto him hath he given all that he hath.
Genesis 24:37	And my master made me swear, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife to my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I dwell:
Genesis 24:38	But thou shalt go unto my father’s house, and to my kindred, and take a wife unto my son.
Genesis 24:39	And I said unto my master, Peradventure the woman will not follow me.
Genesis 24:40	And he said unto me,

Genesis 24:50	Then Laban and Bethuel answered and said, The thing proceedeth from the LORD: we cannot speak unto thee bad or good.
Genesis 24:51	Behold, Rebekah [is] before thee, take [her], and go, and let her be thy master’s son’s wife, as the LORD hath spoken.
Genesis 24:52	And it came to pass, that, when Abraham’s servant heard their words, he worshipped the LORD, [bowing himself] to the earth.
Genesis 24:53	And the servant brought forth jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and raiment, and gave [them] to Rebekah: he gave also to her brother and to her mother precious things.
Genesis 24:54	And they did eat and drink, he and the men that [were] with him, and tarried all night; and they rose up in the morning, and he said, Send me away unto my master.
Genesis 24:55	And her brother and her mother said, Let the damsel abide with us [a few] days, at the least ten; after that she shall go.
Genesis 24:56	And he said unto them,

Genesis 24:57	And they said, We will call the damsel, and inquire at her mouth.
Genesis 24:58	And they called Rebekah, and said unto her, Wilt thou go with this man? 

Genesis 24:59	And they sent away Rebekah their sister, and her nurse, and Abraham’s servant, and his men.
Genesis 24:60	And they blessed Rebekah, and said unto her, Thou [art] our sister, be thou [the mother] of thousands of millions, and let thy seed possess the gate of those which hate them.
Genesis 24:61	And Rebekah arose, and her damsels, and they rode upon the camels, and followed the man: and the servant took Rebekah, and went his way.
Genesis 24:62	And Isaac came from the way of the well Lahairoi; for he dwelt in the south country.
Genesis 24:63	And Isaac went out to meditate in the field at the eventide: and he lifted up his eyes, and saw, and, behold, the camels [were] coming.
Genesis 24:64	And Rebekah lifted up her eyes, and when she saw Isaac, she lighted off the camel.
Genesis 24:65	For she [had] said unto the servant,

And the servant [had] said,

therefore she took a vail, and covered herself.

Genesis 24:66	And the servant told Isaac all things that he had done.
Genesis 24:67	And Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah’s tent, and took Rebekah, and she became his wife; and he loved her: and Isaac was comforted after his mother’s [death].
Genesis 25:1	Then again Abraham took a wife, and her name [was] Keturah.
Genesis 25:2	And she bare him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah.
Genesis 25:3	And Jokshan begat Sheba, and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim.
Genesis 25:4	And the sons of Midian; Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these [were] the children of Keturah.
Genesis 25:5	And Abraham gave all that he had unto Isaac.
Genesis 25:6	But unto the sons of the concubines, which Abraham had, Abraham gave gifts, and sent them away from Isaac his son, while he yet lived, eastward, unto the east country.
Genesis 25:7	And these [are] the days of the years of Abraham’s life which he lived, an hundred threescore and fifteen years.
Genesis 25:8	Then Abraham gave up the ghost, and died in a good old age, an old man, and full [of years]; and was gathered to his people.
Genesis 25:9	And his sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, which [is] before Mamre;
Genesis 25:10	The field which Abraham purchased of the sons of Heth: there was Abraham buried, and Sarah his wife.
Genesis 25:11	And it came to pass after the death of Abraham, that God blessed his son Isaac; and Isaac dwelt by the well Lahairoi.
Genesis 25:12	Now these [are] the generations of Ishmael, Abraham’s son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah’s handmaid, bare unto Abraham:
Genesis 25:13	And these [are] the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names, according to their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebajoth; and Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam,
Genesis 25:14	And Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa,
Genesis 25:15	Hadar, and Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah:
Genesis 25:16	These [are] the sons of Ishmael, and these [are] their names, by their towns, and by their castles; twelve princes according to their nations.
Genesis 25:17	And these [are] the years of the life of Ishmael, an hundred and thirty and seven years: and he gave up the ghost and died; and was gathered unto his people.
Genesis 25:18	And they dwelt from Havilah unto Shur, that [is] before Egypt, as thou goest toward Assyria: [and] he died in the presence of all his brethren.
Genesis 25:19	And these [are] the generations of Isaac, Abraham’s son: Abraham begat Isaac:
Genesis 25:20	And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah to wife, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Padanaram, the sister to Laban the Syrian.
Genesis 25:21	And Isaac intreated the LORD for his wife, because she [was] barren: and the LORD was intreated of him, and Rebekah his wife conceived.
Genesis 25:22	And the children struggled together within her; and she said, 

And she went to inquire of the LORD.
Genesis 25:23	And the LORD said unto her,

Genesis 25:24	And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, [there were] twins in her womb.
Genesis 25:25	And the first came out red, all over like an hairy garment; and they called his name Esau.
Genesis 25:26	And after that came his brother out, and his hand took hold on Esau’s heel; and his name was called Jacob: and Isaac [was] threescore years old when she bare them.
Genesis 25:27	And the boys grew: and Esau was a cunning hunter, a man of the field; and Jacob [was] a plain man, dwelling in tents.
Genesis 25:28	And Isaac loved Esau, because he did eat of [his] venison: but Rebekah loved Jacob.
Genesis 25:29	And Jacob sod pottage: and Esau came from the field, and he [was] faint:
Genesis 25:30	And Esau said to Jacob, 

therefore was his name called Edom.
Genesis 25:31	And Jacob said,

Genesis 25:32	And Esau said, 
Genesis 25:33	And Jacob said,

and he sware unto him: and he sold his birthright unto Jacob.
Genesis 25:34	Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentiles; and he did eat and drink, and rose up, and went his way: thus Esau despised [his] birthright.
Genesis 26:1	And there was a famine in the land, beside the first famine that was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went unto Abimelech king of the Philistines unto Gerar.
Genesis 26:2	And the LORD appeared unto him, and said,

Genesis 26:6	And Isaac dwelt in Gerar:
Genesis 26:7	And the men of the place asked [him] of his wife; and he said,

for he feared to say, [She is] my wife; lest, [said he], the men of the place should kill me for Rebekah; because she [was] fair to look upon.
Genesis 26:8	And it came to pass, when he had been there a long time, that Abimelech king of the Philistines looked out at a window, and saw, and, behold, Isaac [was] sporting with Rebekah his wife.
Genesis 26:9	And Abimelech called Isaac, and said,

And Isaac said unto him,

Genesis 26:10	And Abimelech said,

Genesis 26:11	And Abimelech charged all [his] people, saying, 

Genesis 26:12	Then Isaac sowed in that land, and received in the same year an hundredfold: and the LORD blessed him.
Genesis 26:13	And the man waxed great, and went forward, and grew until he became very great:
Genesis 26:14	For he had possession of flocks, and possession of herds, and great store of servants: and the Philistines envied him.
Genesis 26:15	For all the wells which his father’s servants had digged in the days of Abraham his father, the Philistines had stopped them, and filled them with earth.
Genesis 26:16	And Abimelech said unto Isaac,

Genesis 26:17	And Isaac departed thence, and pitched his tent in the valley of Gerar, and dwelt there.
Genesis 26:18	And Isaac digged again the wells of water, which they had digged in the days of Abraham his father; for the Philistines had stopped them after the death of Abraham: and he called their names after the names by which his father had called them.
Genesis 26:19	And Isaac’s servants digged in the valley, and found there a well of springing water.
Genesis 26:20	And the herdmen of Gerar did strive with Isaac’s herdmen, saying, The water [is] ours: and he called the name of the well Esek; because they strove with him.
Genesis 26:21	And they digged another well, and strove for that also: and he called the name of it Sitnah.
Genesis 26:22	And he removed from thence, and digged another well; and for that they strove not: and he called the name of it Rehoboth; and he said, For now the LORD hath made room for us, and we shall be fruitful in the land.
Genesis 26:23	And he went up from thence to Beersheba.
Genesis 26:24	And the LORD appeared unto him the same night, and said,

Genesis 26:25	And he builded an altar there, and called upon the name of the LORD, and pitched his tent there: and there Isaac’s servants digged a well.
Genesis 26:26	Then Abimelech went to him from Gerar, and Ahuzzath one of his friends, and Phichol the chief captain of his army.
Genesis 26:27	And Isaac said unto them,

Genesis 26:28	And they said, We saw certainly that the LORD was with thee: and we said, Let there be now an oath betwixt us, [even] betwixt us and thee, and let us make a covenant with thee;
Genesis 26:29	That thou wilt do us no hurt, as we have not touched thee, and as we have done unto thee nothing but good, and have sent thee away in peace: thou [art] now the blessed of the LORD.
Genesis 26:30	And he made them a feast, and they did eat and drink.
Genesis 26:31	And they rose up betimes in the morning, and sware one to another: and Isaac sent them away, and they departed from him in peace.
Genesis 26:32	And it came to pass the same day, that Isaac’s servants came, and told him concerning the well which they had digged, and said unto him, We have found water.
Genesis 26:33	And he called it Shebah: therefore the name of the city [is] Beersheba unto this day.
Genesis 26:34	And Esau was forty years old when he took to wife Judith the daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Bashemath the daughter of Elon the Hittite:
Genesis 26:35	Which were a grief of mind unto Isaac and to Rebekah.
Genesis 27:1	And it came to pass, that when Isaac was old, and his eyes were dim, so that he could not see, he called Esau his eldest son, and said unto him,


 and he said unto him, Behold, [here am] I.
Genesis 27:2	And he said,

Genesis 27:5	And Rebekah heard when Isaac spake to Esau his son. And Esau went to the field to hunt [for] venison, [and] to bring [it].
Genesis 27:6	And Rebekah spake unto Jacob her son, saying,

Genesis 27:11	And Jacob said to Rebekah his mother,

Genesis 27:13	And his mother said unto him,

Genesis 27:14	And he went, and fetched, and brought [them] to his mother: and his mother made savoury meat, such as his father loved.
Genesis 27:15	And Rebekah took goodly raiment of her eldest son Esau, which [were] with her in the house, and put them upon Jacob her younger son:
Genesis 27:16	And she put the skins of the kids of the goats upon his hands, and upon the smooth of his neck:
Genesis 27:17	And she gave the savoury meat and the bread, which she had prepared, into the hand of her son Jacob.
Genesis 27:18	And he came unto his father, and said, My father: and he said,

Genesis 27:19	And Jacob said unto his father, 

Genesis 27:20	And Isaac said unto his son, 

And he said,

Genesis 27:21	And Isaac said unto Jacob,

Genesis 27:22	And Jacob went near unto Isaac his father; and he felt him, and said,

Genesis 27:23	And he discerned him not, because his hands were hairy, as his brother Esau’s hands: so he blessed him.
Genesis 27:24	And he said,

And he said, I [am].
Genesis 27:25	And he said, 

And he brought [it] near to him, and he did eat: and he brought him wine, and he drank.
Genesis 27:26	And his father Isaac said unto him, Come near now, and kiss me, my son.
Genesis 27:27	And he came near, and kissed him: and he smelled the smell of his raiment, and blessed him, and said,

Genesis 27:30	And it came to pass, as soon as Isaac had made an end of blessing Jacob, and Jacob was yet scarce gone out from the presence of Isaac his father, that Esau his brother came in from his hunting.
Genesis 27:31	And he also had made savoury meat, and brought it unto his father, and said unto his father,


Genesis 27:32	And Isaac his father said unto him, Who [art] thou? And he said, 
Genesis 27:33	And Isaac trembled very exceedingly, and said,

Genesis 27:34	And when Esau heard the words of his father, he cried with a great and exceeding bitter cry, and said unto his father, 
Genesis 27:35	And he said,


Genesis 27:36	And he said, 
Genesis 27:37	And Isaac answered and said unto Esau,

Genesis 27:38	And Esau said unto his father, Hast thou but one blessing, my father? bless me, [even] me also, O my father. And Esau lifted up his voice, and wept.
Genesis 27:39	And Isaac his father answered and said unto him, Behold, thy dwelling shall be the fatness of the earth, and of the dew of heaven from above;
Genesis 27:40	And by thy sword shalt thou live, and shalt serve thy brother; and it shall come to pass when thou shalt have the dominion, that thou shalt break his yoke from off thy neck.
Genesis 27:41	And Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing wherewith his father blessed him: and Esau said in his heart, 
Genesis 27:42	And these words of Esau her elder son were told to Rebekah: and she sent and called Jacob her younger son, and said unto him,

Genesis 27:46	And Rebekah said to Isaac, 
Genesis 28:1	And Isaac called Jacob, and blessed him, and charged him, and said unto him, 
Genesis 28:5	And Isaac sent away Jacob: and he went to Padanaram unto Laban, son of Bethuel the Syrian, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob’s and Esau’s mother.
Genesis 28:6	When Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob, and sent him away to Padanaram, to take him a wife from thence; and that as he blessed him he gave him a charge, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan;
Genesis 28:7	And that Jacob obeyed his father and his mother, and was gone to Padanaram;
Genesis 28:8	And Esau seeing that the daughters of Canaan pleased not Isaac his father;
Genesis 28:9	Then went Esau unto Ishmael, and took unto the wives which he had Mahalath the daughter of Ishmael Abraham’s son, the sister of Nebajoth, to be his wife.
Genesis 28:10	And Jacob went out from Beersheba, and went toward Haran.
Genesis 28:11	And he lighted upon a certain place, and tarried there all night, because the sun was set; and he took of the stones of that place, and put [them for] his pillows, and lay down in that place to sleep.
Genesis 28:12	And he dreamed, and behold a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven: and behold the angels of God ascending and descending on it.
Genesis 28:13	And, behold, the LORD stood above it, and said, 
Genesis 28:16	And Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said, 

Genesis 28:18	And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone that he had put [for] his pillows, and set it up [for] a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it.
Genesis 28:19	And he called the name of that place Bethel: but the name of that city [was called] Luz at the first.
Genesis 28:20	And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, 

Genesis 29:1	Then Jacob went on his journey, and came into the land of the people of the east.
Genesis 29:2	And he looked, and behold a well in the field, and, lo, there [were] three flocks of sheep lying by it; for out of that well they watered the flocks: and a great stone [was] upon the well’s mouth.
Genesis 29:3	And thither were all the flocks gathered: and they rolled the stone from the well’s mouth, and watered the sheep, and put the stone again upon the well’s mouth in his place.
Genesis 29:4	And Jacob said unto them, 
 And they said, Of Haran [are] we.
Genesis 29:5	And he said unto them, 
And they said, We know [him].
Genesis 29:6	And he said unto them, 
 And they said, [He is] well: and, behold, Rachel his daughter cometh with the sheep.
Genesis 29:7	And he said, 

Genesis 29:8	And they said, We cannot, until all the flocks be gathered together, and [till] they roll the stone from the well’s mouth; then we water the sheep.
Genesis 29:9	And while he yet spake with them, Rachel came with her father’s sheep: for she kept them.
Genesis 29:10	And it came to pass, when Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Laban his mother’s brother, and the sheep of Laban his mother’s brother, that Jacob went near, and rolled the stone from the well’s mouth, and watered the flock of Laban his mother’s brother.
Genesis 29:11	And Jacob kissed Rachel, and lifted up his voice, and wept.
Genesis 29:12	And Jacob told Rachel that he [was] her father’s brother, and that he [was] Rebekah’s son: and she ran and told her father.
Genesis 29:13	And it came to pass, when Laban heard the tidings of Jacob his sister’s son, that he ran to meet him, and embraced him, and kissed him, and brought him to his house. And he told Laban all these things.
Genesis 29:14	And Laban said to him,

Genesis 29:15	And Laban said unto Jacob, 

Genesis 29:16	And Laban had two daughters: the name of the elder [was] Leah, and the name of the younger [was] Rachel.
Genesis 29:17	Leah [was] tender eyed; but Rachel was beautiful and well favoured.
Genesis 29:18	And Jacob loved Rachel; and said, 

Genesis 29:19	And Laban said, 

Genesis 29:20	And Jacob served seven years for Rachel; and they seemed unto him [but] a few days, for the love he had to her.
Genesis 29:21	And Jacob said unto Laban, 

Genesis 29:22	And Laban gathered together all the men of the place, and made a feast.
Genesis 29:23	And it came to pass in the evening, that he took Leah his daughter, and brought her to him; and he went in unto her.
Genesis 29:24	And Laban gave unto his daughter Leah Zilpah his maid [for] an handmaid.
Genesis 29:25	And it came to pass, that in the morning, behold, it [was] Leah: and he said to Laban,

Genesis 29:26	And Laban said, 

Genesis 29:28	And Jacob did so, and fulfilled her week: and he gave him Rachel his daughter to wife also.
Genesis 29:29	And Laban gave to Rachel his daughter Bilhah his handmaid to be her maid.
Genesis 29:30	And he went in also unto Rachel, and he loved also Rachel more than Leah, and served with him yet seven other years.
Genesis 29:31	And when the LORD saw that Leah [was] hated, he opened her womb: but Rachel [was] barren.
Genesis 29:32	And Leah conceived, and bare a son, and she called his name Reuben: for she said, 

Genesis 29:33	And she conceived again, and bare a son; and said,

Genesis 29:34	And she conceived again, and bare a son; and said, 

Genesis 29:35	And she conceived again, and bare a son: and she said, 
 therefore she called his name Judah; and left bearing.
Genesis 30:1	And when Rachel saw that she bare Jacob no children, Rachel envied her sister; and said unto Jacob, 

Genesis 30:2	And Jacob’s anger was kindled against Rachel: and he said, 

Genesis 30:3	And she said, 

Genesis 30:4	And she gave him Bilhah her handmaid to wife: and Jacob went in unto her.
Genesis 30:5	And Bilhah conceived, and bare Jacob a son.
Genesis 30:6	And Rachel said, 

Genesis 30:7	And Bilhah Rachel’s maid conceived again, and bare Jacob a second son.
Genesis 30:8	And Rachel said, 
 and she called his name Naphtali.
Genesis 30:9	When Leah saw that she had left bearing, she took Zilpah her maid, and gave her Jacob to wife.
Genesis 30:10	And Zilpah Leah’s maid bare Jacob a son.
Genesis 30:11	And Leah said, 
and she called his name Gad.
Genesis 30:12	And Zilpah Leah’s maid bare Jacob a second son.
Genesis 30:13	And Leah said, 
and she called his name Asher.
Genesis 30:14	And Reuben went in the days of wheat harvest, and found mandrakes in the field, and brought them unto his mother Leah. Then Rachel said to Leah, 

Genesis 30:15	And she said unto her, 
 And Rachel said, 
Genesis 30:16	And Jacob came out of the field in the evening, and Leah went out to meet him, and said, 
 And he lay with her that night.
Genesis 30:17	And God hearkened unto Leah, and she conceived, and bare Jacob the fifth son.
Genesis 30:18	And Leah said, 
 and she called his name Issachar.
Genesis 30:19	And Leah conceived again, and bare Jacob the sixth son.
Genesis 30:20	And Leah said, 
 and she called his name Zebulun.
Genesis 30:21	And afterwards she bare a daughter, and called her name Dinah.
Genesis 30:22	And God remembered Rachel, and God hearkened to her, and opened her womb.
Genesis 30:23	And she conceived, and bare a son; and said, 

Genesis 30:24	And she called his name Joseph; and said, 

Genesis 30:25	And it came to pass, when Rachel had born Joseph, that Jacob said unto Laban, 

Genesis 30:27	And Laban said unto him, 

Genesis 30:29	And he said unto him, 


Genesis 30:31	And he said, What shall I give thee? And Jacob said, 

Genesis 30:34	And Laban said, 

Genesis 30:35	And he removed that day the he goats that were ringstraked and spotted, and all the she goats that were speckled and spotted, [and] every one that had [some] white in it, and all the brown among the sheep, and gave [them] into the hand of his sons.
Genesis 30:36	And he set three days’ journey betwixt himself and Jacob: and Jacob fed the rest of Laban’s flocks.
Genesis 30:37	And Jacob took him rods of green poplar, and of the hazel and chesnut tree; and pilled white strakes in them, and made the white appear which [was] in the rods.
Genesis 30:38	And he set the rods which he had pilled before the flocks in the gutters in the watering troughs when the flocks came to drink, that they should conceive when they came to drink.
Genesis 30:39	And the flocks conceived before the rods, and brought forth cattle ringstraked, speckled, and spotted.
Genesis 30:40	And Jacob did separate the lambs, and set the faces of the flocks toward the ringstraked, and all the brown in the flock of Laban; and he put his own flocks by themselves, and put them not unto Laban’s cattle.
Genesis 30:41	And it came to pass, whensoever the stronger cattle did conceive, that Jacob laid the rods before the eyes of the cattle in the gutters, that they might conceive among the rods.
Genesis 30:42	But when the cattle were feeble, he put [them] not in: so the feebler were Laban’s, and the stronger Jacob’s.
Genesis 30:43	And the man increased exceedingly, and had much cattle, and maidservants, and menservants, and camels, and asses.
Genesis 31:1	And he heard the words of Laban’s sons, saying, Jacob hath taken away all that [was] our father’s; and of [that] which [was] our father’s hath he gotten all this glory.
Genesis 31:2	And Jacob beheld the countenance of Laban, and, behold, it [was] not toward him as before.
Genesis 31:3	And the LORD said unto Jacob, Return unto the land of thy fathers, and to thy kindred; and I will be with thee.
Genesis 31:4	And Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to the field unto his flock,
Genesis 31:5	And said unto them, I see your father’s countenance, that it [is] not toward me as before; but the God of my father hath been with me.
Genesis 31:6	And ye know that with all my power I have served your father.
Genesis 31:7	And your father hath deceived me, and changed my wages ten times; but God suffered him not to hurt me.
Genesis 31:8	If he said thus, The speckled shall be thy wages; then all the cattle bare speckled: and if he said thus, The ringstraked shall be thy hire; then bare all the cattle ringstraked.
Genesis 31:9	Thus God hath taken away the cattle of your father, and given [them] to me.
Genesis 31:10	And it came to pass at the time that the cattle conceived, that I lifted up mine eyes, and saw in a dream, and, behold, the rams which leaped upon the cattle [were] ringstraked, speckled, and grisled.
Genesis 31:11	And the angel of God spake unto me in a dream, [saying], Jacob: And I said, Here [am] I.
Genesis 31:12	And he said, Lift up now thine eyes, and see, all the rams which leap upon the cattle [are] ringstraked, speckled, and grisled: for I have seen all that Laban doeth unto thee.
Genesis 31:13	I [am] the God of Bethel, where thou anointedst the pillar, [and] where thou vowedst a vow unto me: now arise, get thee out from this land, and return unto the land of thy kindred.
Genesis 31:14	And Rachel and Leah answered and said unto him, [Is there] yet any portion or inheritance for us in our father’s house?
Genesis 31:15	Are we not counted of him strangers? for he hath sold us, and hath quite devoured also our money.
Genesis 31:16	For all the riches which God hath taken from our father, that [is] ours, and our children’s: now then, whatsoever God hath said unto thee, do.
Genesis 31:17	Then Jacob rose up, and set his sons and his wives upon camels;
Genesis 31:18	And he carried away all his cattle, and all his goods which he had gotten, the cattle of his getting, which he had gotten in Padanaram, for to go to Isaac his father in the land of Canaan.
Genesis 31:19	And Laban went to shear his sheep: and Rachel had stolen the images that [were] her father’s.
Genesis 31:20	And Jacob stole away unawares to Laban the Syrian, in that he told him not that he fled.
Genesis 31:21	So he fled with all that he had; and he rose up, and passed over the river, and set his face [toward] the mount Gilead.
Genesis 31:22	And it was told Laban on the third day that Jacob was fled.
Genesis 31:23	And he took his brethren with him, and pursued after him seven days’ journey; and they overtook him in the mount Gilead.
Genesis 31:24	And God came to Laban the Syrian in a dream by night, and said unto him, Take heed that thou speak not to Jacob either good or bad.
Genesis 31:25	Then Laban overtook Jacob. Now Jacob had pitched his tent in the mount: and Laban with his brethren pitched in the mount of Gilead.
Genesis 31:26	And Laban said to Jacob, What hast thou done, that thou hast stolen away unawares to me, and carried away my daughters, as captives [taken] with the sword?
Genesis 31:27	Wherefore didst thou flee away secretly, and steal away from me; and didst not tell me, that I might have sent thee away with mirth, and with songs, with tabret, and with harp?
Genesis 31:28	And hast not suffered me to kiss my sons and my daughters? thou hast now done foolishly in [so] doing.
Genesis 31:29	It is in the power of my hand to do you hurt: but the God of your father spake unto me yesternight, saying, Take thou heed that thou speak not to Jacob either good or bad.
Genesis 31:30	And now, [though] thou wouldest needs be gone, because thou sore longedst after thy father’s house, [yet] wherefore hast thou stolen my gods?
Genesis 31:31	And Jacob answered and said to Laban, Because I was afraid: for I said, Peradventure thou wouldest take by force thy daughters from me.
Genesis 31:32	With whomsoever thou findest thy gods, let him not live: before our brethren discern thou what [is] thine with me, and take [it] to thee. For Jacob knew not that Rachel had stolen them.
Genesis 31:33	And Laban went into Jacob’s tent, and into Leah’s tent, and into the two maidservants’ tents; but he found [them] not. Then went he out of Leah’s tent, and entered into Rachel’s tent.
Genesis 31:34	Now Rachel had taken the images, and put them in the camel’s furniture, and sat upon them. And Laban searched all the tent, but found [them] not.
Genesis 31:35	And she said to her father, Let it not displease my lord that I cannot rise up before thee; for the custom of women [is] upon me. And he searched, but found not the images.
Genesis 31:36	And Jacob was wroth, and chode with Laban: and Jacob answered and said to Laban, What [is] my trespass? what [is] my sin, that thou hast so hotly pursued after me?
Genesis 31:37	Whereas thou hast searched all my stuff, what hast thou found of all thy household stuff? set [it] here before my brethren and thy brethren, that they may judge betwixt us both.
Genesis 31:38	This twenty years [have] I [been] with thee; thy ewes and thy she goats have not cast their young, and the rams of thy flock have I not eaten.
Genesis 31:39	That which was torn [of beasts] I brought not unto thee; I bare the loss of it; of my hand didst thou require it, [whether] stolen by day, or stolen by night.
Genesis 31:40	[Thus] I was; in the day the drought consumed me, and the frost by night; and my sleep departed from mine eyes.
Genesis 31:41	Thus have I been twenty years in thy house; I served thee fourteen years for thy two daughters, and six years for thy cattle: and thou hast changed my wages ten times.
Genesis 31:42	Except the God of my father, the God of Abraham, and the fear of Isaac, had been with me, surely thou hadst sent me away now empty. God hath seen mine affliction and the labour of my hands, and rebuked [thee] yesternight.
Genesis 31:43	And Laban answered and said unto Jacob, [These] daughters [are] my daughters, and [these] children [are] my children, and [these] cattle [are] my cattle, and all that thou seest [is] mine: and what can I do this day unto these my daughters, or unto their children which they have born?
Genesis 31:44	Now therefore come thou, let us make a covenant, I and thou; and let it be for a witness between me and thee.
Genesis 31:45	And Jacob took a stone, and set it up [for] a pillar.
Genesis 31:46	And Jacob said unto his brethren, Gather stones; and they took stones, and made an heap: and they did eat there upon the heap.
Genesis 31:47	And Laban called it Jegarsahadutha: but Jacob called it Galeed.
Genesis 31:48	And Laban said, This heap [is] a witness between me and thee this day. Therefore was the name of it called Galeed;
Genesis 31:49	And Mizpah; for he said, The LORD watch between me and thee, when we are absent one from another.
Genesis 31:50	If thou shalt afflict my daughters, or if thou shalt take [other] wives beside my daughters, no man [is] with us; see, God [is] witness betwixt me and thee.
Genesis 31:51	And Laban said to Jacob, Behold this heap, and behold [this] pillar, which I have cast betwixt me and thee;
Genesis 31:52	This heap [be] witness, and [this] pillar [be] witness, that I will not pass over this heap to thee, and that thou shalt not pass over this heap and this pillar unto me, for harm.
Genesis 31:53	The God of Abraham, and the God of Nahor, the God of their father, judge betwixt us. And Jacob sware by the fear of his father Isaac.
Genesis 31:54	Then Jacob offered sacrifice upon the mount, and called his brethren to eat bread: and they did eat bread, and tarried all night in the mount.
Genesis 31:55	And early in the morning Laban rose up, and kissed his sons and his daughters, and blessed them: and Laban departed, and returned unto his place.
Genesis 32:1	And Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him.
Genesis 32:2	And when Jacob saw them, he said, This [is] God’s host: and he called the name of that place Mahanaim.
Genesis 32:3	And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother unto the land of Seir, the country of Edom.
Genesis 32:4	And he commanded them, saying, Thus shall ye speak unto my lord Esau; Thy servant Jacob saith thus, I have sojourned with Laban, and stayed there until now:
Genesis 32:5	And I have oxen, and asses, flocks, and menservants, and womenservants: and I have sent to tell my lord, that I may find grace in thy sight.
Genesis 32:6	And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to thy brother Esau, and also he cometh to meet thee, and four hundred men with him.
Genesis 32:7	Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed: and he divided the people that [was] with him, and the flocks, and herds, and the camels, into two bands;
Genesis 32:8	And said, If Esau come to the one company, and smite it, then the other company which is left shall escape.
Genesis 32:9	And Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham, and God of my father Isaac, the LORD which saidst unto me, Return unto thy country, and to thy kindred, and I will deal well with thee:
Genesis 32:10	I am not worthy of the least of all the mercies, and of all the truth, which thou hast shewed unto thy servant; for with my staff I passed over this Jordan; and now I am become two bands.
Genesis 32:11	Deliver me, I pray thee, from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau: for I fear him, lest he will come and smite me, [and] the mother with the children.
Genesis 32:12	And thou saidst, I will surely do thee good, and make thy seed as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude.
Genesis 32:13	And he lodged there that same night; and took of that which came to his hand a present for Esau his brother;
Genesis 32:14	Two hundred she goats, and twenty he goats, two hundred ewes, and twenty rams,
Genesis 32:15	Thirty milch camels with their colts, forty kine, and ten bulls, twenty she asses, and ten foals.
Genesis 32:16	And he delivered [them] into the hand of his servants, every drove by themselves; and said unto his servants, Pass over before me, and put a space betwixt drove and drove.
Genesis 32:17	And he commanded the foremost, saying, When Esau my brother meeteth thee, and asketh thee, saying, Whose [art] thou? and whither goest thou? and whose [are] these before thee?
Genesis 32:18	Then thou shalt say, [They be] thy servant Jacob’s; it [is] a present sent unto my lord Esau: and, behold, also he [is] behind us.
Genesis 32:19	And so commanded he the second, and the third, and all that followed the droves, saying, On this manner shall ye speak unto Esau, when ye find him.
Genesis 32:20	And say ye moreover, Behold, thy servant Jacob [is] behind us. For he said, I will appease him with the present that goeth before me, and afterward I will see his face; peradventure he will accept of me.
Genesis 32:21	So went the present over before him: and himself lodged that night in the company.
Genesis 32:22	And he rose up that night, and took his two wives, and his two womenservants, and his eleven sons, and passed over the ford Jabbok.
Genesis 32:23	And he took them, and sent them over the brook, and sent over that he had.
Genesis 32:24	And Jacob was left alone; and there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day.
Genesis 32:25	And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touched the hollow of his thigh; and the hollow of Jacob’s thigh was out of joint, as he wrestled with him.
Genesis 32:26	And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he said, I will not let thee go, except thou bless me.
Genesis 32:27	And he said unto him, What [is] thy name? And he said, Jacob.
Genesis 32:28	And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel: for as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hast prevailed.
Genesis 32:29	And Jacob asked [him], and said, Tell [me], I pray thee, thy name. And he said, Wherefore [is] it [that] thou dost ask after my name? And he blessed him there.
Genesis 32:30	And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel: for I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved.
Genesis 32:31	And as he passed over Penuel the sun rose upon him, and he halted upon his thigh.
Genesis 32:32	Therefore the children of Israel eat not [of] the sinew which shrank, which [is] upon the hollow of the thigh, unto this day: because he touched the hollow of Jacob’s thigh in the sinew that shrank.
Genesis 33:1	And Jacob lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, Esau came, and with him four hundred men. And he divided the children unto Leah, and unto Rachel, and unto the two handmaids.
Genesis 33:2	And he put the handmaids and their children foremost, and Leah and her children after, and Rachel and Joseph hindermost.
Genesis 33:3	And he passed over before them, and bowed himself to the ground seven times, until he came near to his brother.
Genesis 33:4	And Esau ran to meet him, and embraced him, and fell on his neck, and kissed him: and they wept.
Genesis 33:5	And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the women and the children; and said, Who [are] those with thee? And he said, The children which God hath graciously given thy servant.
Genesis 33:6	Then the handmaidens came near, they and their children, and they bowed themselves.
Genesis 33:7	And Leah also with her children came near, and bowed themselves: and after came Joseph near and Rachel, and they bowed themselves.
Genesis 33:8	And he said, What [meanest] thou by all this drove which I met? And he said, [These are] to find grace in the sight of my lord.
Genesis 33:9	And Esau said, I have enough, my brother; keep that thou hast unto thyself.
Genesis 33:10	And Jacob said, Nay, I pray thee, if now I have found grace in thy sight, then receive my present at my hand: for therefore I have seen thy face, as though I had seen the face of God, and thou wast pleased with me.
Genesis 33:11	Take, I pray thee, my blessing that is brought to thee; because God hath dealt graciously with me, and because I have enough. And he urged him, and he took [it].
Genesis 33:12	And he said, Let us take our journey, and let us go, and I will go before thee.
Genesis 33:13	And he said unto him, My lord knoweth that the children [are] tender, and the flocks and herds with young [are] with me: and if men should overdrive them one day, all the flock will die.
Genesis 33:14	Let my lord, I pray thee, pass over before his servant: and I will lead on softly, according as the cattle that goeth before me and the children be able to endure, until I come unto my lord unto Seir.
Genesis 33:15	And Esau said, Let me now leave with thee [some] of the folk that [are] with me. And he said, What needeth it? let me find grace in the sight of my lord.
Genesis 33:16	So Esau returned that day on his way unto Seir.
Genesis 33:17	And Jacob journeyed to Succoth, and built him an house, and made booths for his cattle: therefore the name of the place is called Succoth.
Genesis 33:18	And Jacob came to Shalem, a city of Shechem, which [is] in the land of Canaan, when he came from Padanaram; and pitched his tent before the city.
Genesis 33:19	And he bought a parcel of a field, where he had spread his tent, at the hand of the children of Hamor, Shechem’s father, for an hundred pieces of money.
Genesis 33:20	And he erected there an altar, and called it EleloheIsrael.
Genesis 34:1	And Dinah the daughter of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob, went out to see the daughters of the land.
Genesis 34:2	And when Shechem the son of Hamor the Hivite, prince of the country, saw her, he took her, and lay with her, and defiled her.
Genesis 34:3	And his soul clave unto Dinah the daughter of Jacob, and he loved the damsel, and spake kindly unto the damsel.
Genesis 34:4	And Shechem spake unto his father Hamor, saying, Get me this damsel to wife.
Genesis 34:5	And Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah his daughter: now his sons were with his cattle in the field: and Jacob held his peace until they were come.
Genesis 34:6	And Hamor the father of Shechem went out unto Jacob to commune with him.
Genesis 34:7	And the sons of Jacob came out of the field when they heard [it]: and the men were grieved, and they were very wroth, because he had wrought folly in Israel in lying with Jacob’s daughter; which thing ought not to be done.
Genesis 34:8	And Hamor communed with them, saying, The soul of my son Shechem longeth for your daughter: I pray you give her him to wife.
Genesis 34:9	And make ye marriages with us, [and] give your daughters unto us, and take our daughters unto you.
Genesis 34:10	And ye shall dwell with us: and the land shall be before you; dwell and trade ye therein, and get you possessions therein.
Genesis 34:11	And Shechem said unto her father and unto her brethren, Let me find grace in your eyes, and what ye shall say unto me I will give.
Genesis 34:12	Ask me never so much dowry and gift, and I will give according as ye shall say unto me: but give me the damsel to wife.
Genesis 34:13	And the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamor his father deceitfully, and said, because he had defiled Dinah their sister:
Genesis 34:14	And they said unto them, We cannot do this thing, to give our sister to one that is uncircumcised; for that [were] a reproach unto us:
Genesis 34:15	But in this will we consent unto you: If ye will be as we [be], that every male of you be circumcised;
Genesis 34:16	Then will we give our daughters unto you, and we will take your daughters to us, and we will dwell with you, and we will become one people.
Genesis 34:17	But if ye will not hearken unto us, to be circumcised; then will we take our daughter, and we will be gone.
Genesis 34:18	And their words pleased Hamor, and Shechem Hamor’s son.
Genesis 34:19	And the young man deferred not to do the thing, because he had delight in Jacob’s daughter: and he [was] more honourable than all the house of his father.
Genesis 34:20	And Hamor and Shechem his son came unto the gate of their city, and communed with the men of their city, saying,
Genesis 34:21	These men [are] peaceable with us; therefore let them dwell in the land, and trade therein; for the land, behold, [it is] large enough for them; let us take their daughters to us for wives, and let us give them our daughters.
Genesis 34:22	Only herein will the men consent unto us for to dwell with us, to be one people, if every male among us be circumcised, as they [are] circumcised.
Genesis 34:23	[Shall] not their cattle and their substance and every beast of theirs [be] ours? only let us consent unto them, and they will dwell with us.
Genesis 34:24	And unto Hamor and unto Shechem his son hearkened all that went out of the gate of his city; and every male was circumcised, all that went out of the gate of his city.
Genesis 34:25	And it came to pass on the third day, when they were sore, that two of the sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, Dinah’s brethren, took each man his sword, and came upon the city boldly, and slew all the males.
Genesis 34:26	And they slew Hamor and Shechem his son with the edge of the sword, and took Dinah out of Shechem’s house, and went out.
Genesis 34:27	The sons of Jacob came upon the slain, and spoiled the city, because they had defiled their sister.
Genesis 34:28	They took their sheep, and their oxen, and their asses, and that which [was] in the city, and that which [was] in the field,
Genesis 34:29	And all their wealth, and all their little ones, and their wives took they captive, and spoiled even all that [was] in the house.
Genesis 34:30	And Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, Ye have troubled me to make me to stink among the inhabitants of the land, among the Canaanites and the Perizzites: and I [being] few in number, they shall gather themselves together against me, and slay me; and I shall be destroyed, I and my house.
Genesis 34:31	And they said, Should he deal with our sister as with an harlot?
Genesis 35:1	And God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel, and dwell there: and make there an altar unto God, that appeared unto thee when thou fleddest from the face of Esau thy brother.
Genesis 35:2	Then Jacob said unto his household, and to all that [were] with him, Put away the strange gods that [are] among you, and be clean, and change your garments:
Genesis 35:3	And let us arise, and go up to Bethel; and I will make there an altar unto God, who answered me in the day of my distress, and was with me in the way which I went.
Genesis 35:4	And they gave unto Jacob all the strange gods which [were] in their hand, and [all their] earrings which [were] in their ears; and Jacob hid them under the oak which [was] by Shechem.
Genesis 35:5	And they journeyed: and the terror of God was upon the cities that [were] round about them, and they did not pursue after the sons of Jacob.
Genesis 35:6	So Jacob came to Luz, which [is] in the land of Canaan, that [is], Bethel, he and all the people that [were] with him.
Genesis 35:7	And he built there an altar, and called the place Elbethel: because there God appeared unto him, when he fled from the face of his brother.
Genesis 35:8	But Deborah Rebekah’s nurse died, and she was buried beneath Bethel under an oak: and the name of it was called Allonbachuth.
Genesis 35:9	And God appeared unto Jacob again, when he came out of Padanaram, and blessed him.
Genesis 35:10	And God said unto him, Thy name [is] Jacob: thy name shall not be called any more Jacob, but Israel shall be thy name: and he called his name Israel.
Genesis 35:11	And God said unto him, I [am] God Almighty: be fruitful and multiply; a nation and a company of nations shall be of thee, and kings shall come out of thy loins;
Genesis 35:12	And the land which I gave Abraham and Isaac, to thee I will give it, and to thy seed after thee will I give the land.
Genesis 35:13	And God went up from him in the place where he talked with him.
Genesis 35:14	And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he talked with him, [even] a pillar of stone: and he poured a drink offering thereon, and he poured oil thereon.
Genesis 35:15	And Jacob called the name of the place where God spake with him, Bethel.
Genesis 35:16	And they journeyed from Bethel; and there was but a little way to come to Ephrath: and Rachel travailed, and she had hard labour.
Genesis 35:17	And it came to pass, when she was in hard labour, that the midwife said unto her, Fear not; thou shalt have this son also.
Genesis 35:18	And it came to pass, as her soul was in departing, (for she died) that she called his name Benoni: but his father called him Benjamin.
Genesis 35:19	And Rachel died, and was buried in the way to Ephrath, which [is] Bethlehem.
Genesis 35:20	And Jacob set a pillar upon her grave: that [is] the pillar of Rachel’s grave unto this day.
Genesis 35:21	And Israel journeyed, and spread his tent beyond the tower of Edar.
Genesis 35:22	And it came to pass, when Israel dwelt in that land, that Reuben went and lay with Bilhah his father’s concubine: and Israel heard [it]. Now the sons of Jacob were twelve:
Genesis 35:23	The sons of Leah; Reuben, Jacob’s firstborn, and Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Zebulun:
Genesis 35:24	The sons of Rachel; Joseph, and Benjamin:
Genesis 35:25	And the sons of Bilhah, Rachel’s handmaid; Dan, and Naphtali:
Genesis 35:26	And the sons of Zilpah, Leah’s handmaid; Gad, and Asher: these [are] the sons of Jacob, which were born to him in Padanaram.
Genesis 35:27	And Jacob came unto Isaac his father unto Mamre, unto the city of Arbah, which [is] Hebron, where Abraham and Isaac sojourned.
Genesis 35:28	And the days of Isaac were an hundred and fourscore years.
Genesis 35:29	And Isaac gave up the ghost, and died, and was gathered unto his people, [being] old and full of days: and his sons Esau and Jacob buried him.
Genesis 36:1	Now these [are] the generations of Esau, who [is] Edom.
Genesis 36:2	Esau took his wives of the daughters of Canaan; Adah the daughter of Elon the Hittite, and Aholibamah the daughter of Anah the daughter of Zibeon the Hivite;
Genesis 36:3	And Bashemath Ishmael’s daughter, sister of Nebajoth.
Genesis 36:4	And Adah bare to Esau Eliphaz; and Bashemath bare Reuel;
Genesis 36:5	And Aholibamah bare Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah: these [are] the sons of Esau, which were born unto him in the land of Canaan.
Genesis 36:6	And Esau took his wives, and his sons, and his daughters, and all the persons of his house, and his cattle, and all his beasts, and all his substance, which he had got in the land of Canaan; and went into the country from the face of his brother Jacob.
Genesis 36:7	For their riches were more than that they might dwell together; and the land wherein they were strangers could not bear them because of their cattle.
Genesis 36:8	Thus dwelt Esau in mount Seir: Esau [is] Edom.
Genesis 36:9	And these [are] the generations of Esau the father of the Edomites in mount Seir:
Genesis 36:10	These [are] the names of Esau’s sons; Eliphaz the son of Adah the wife of Esau, Reuel the son of Bashemath the wife of Esau.
Genesis 36:11	And the sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, and Gatam, and Kenaz.
Genesis 36:12	And Timna was concubine to Eliphaz Esau’s son; and she bare to Eliphaz Amalek: these [were] the sons of Adah Esau’s wife.
Genesis 36:13	And these [are] the sons of Reuel; Nahath, and Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah: these were the sons of Bashemath Esau’s wife.
Genesis 36:14	And these were the sons of Aholibamah, the daughter of Anah the daughter of Zibeon, Esau’s wife: and she bare to Esau Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah.
Genesis 36:15	These [were] dukes of the sons of Esau: the sons of Eliphaz the firstborn [son] of Esau; duke Teman, duke Omar, duke Zepho, duke Kenaz,
Genesis 36:16	Duke Korah, duke Gatam, [and] duke Amalek: these [are] the dukes [that came] of Eliphaz in the land of Edom; these [were] the sons of Adah.
Genesis 36:17	And these [are] the sons of Reuel Esau’s son; duke Nahath, duke Zerah, duke Shammah, duke Mizzah: these [are] the dukes [that came] of Reuel in the land of Edom; these [are] the sons of Bashemath Esau’s wife.
Genesis 36:18	And these [are] the sons of Aholibamah Esau’s wife; duke Jeush, duke Jaalam, duke Korah: these [were] the dukes [that came] of Aholibamah the daughter of Anah, Esau’s wife.
Genesis 36:19	These [are] the sons of Esau, who [is] Edom, and these [are] their dukes.
Genesis 36:20	These [are] the sons of Seir the Horite, who inhabited the land; Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah,
Genesis 36:21	And Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan: these [are] the dukes of the Horites, the children of Seir in the land of Edom.
Genesis 36:22	And the children of Lotan were Hori and Hemam; and Lotan’s sister [was] Timna.
Genesis 36:23	And the children of Shobal [were] these; Alvan, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shepho, and Onam.
Genesis 36:24	And these [are] the children of Zibeon; both Ajah, and Anah: this [was that] Anah that found the mules in the wilderness, as he fed the asses of Zibeon his father.
Genesis 36:25	And the children of Anah [were] these; Dishon, and Aholibamah the daughter of Anah.
Genesis 36:26	And these [are] the children of Dishon; Hemdan, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran.
Genesis 36:27	The children of Ezer [are] these; Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Akan.
Genesis 36:28	The children of Dishan [are] these; Uz, and Aran.
Genesis 36:29	These [are] the dukes [that came] of the Horites; duke Lotan, duke Shobal, duke Zibeon, duke Anah,
Genesis 36:30	Duke Dishon, duke Ezer, duke Dishan: these [are] the dukes [that came] of Hori, among their dukes in the land of Seir.
Genesis 36:31	And these [are] the kings that reigned in the land of Edom, before there reigned any king over the children of Israel.
Genesis 36:32	And Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom: and the name of his city [was] Dinhabah.
Genesis 36:33	And Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his stead.
Genesis 36:34	And Jobab died, and Husham of the land of Temani reigned in his stead.
Genesis 36:35	And Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who smote Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his stead: and the name of his city [was] Avith.
Genesis 36:36	And Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead.
Genesis 36:37	And Samlah died, and Saul of Rehoboth [by] the river reigned in his stead.
Genesis 36:38	And Saul died, and Baalhanan the son of Achbor reigned in his stead.
Genesis 36:39	And Baalhanan the son of Achbor died, and Hadar reigned in his stead: and the name of his city [was] Pau; and his wife’s name [was] Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.
Genesis 36:40	And these [are] the names of the dukes [that came] of Esau, according to their families, after their places, by their names; duke Timnah, duke Alvah, duke Jetheth,
Genesis 36:41	Duke Aholibamah, duke Elah, duke Pinon,
Genesis 36:42	Duke Kenaz, duke Teman, duke Mibzar,
Genesis 36:43	Duke Magdiel, duke Iram: these [be] the dukes of Edom, according to their habitations in the land of their possession: he [is] Esau the father of the Edomites.
Genesis 37:1	And Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger, in the land of Canaan.
Genesis 37:2	These [are] the generations of Jacob. Joseph, [being] seventeen years old, was feeding the flock with his brethren; and the lad [was] with the sons of Bilhah, and with the sons of Zilpah, his father’s wives: and Joseph brought unto his father their evil report.
Genesis 37:3	Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he [was] the son of his old age: and he made him a coat of [many] colours.
Genesis 37:4	And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him, and could not speak peaceably unto him.
Genesis 37:5	And Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told [it] his brethren: and they hated him yet the more.
Genesis 37:6	And he said unto them, Hear, I pray you, this dream which I have dreamed:
Genesis 37:7	For, behold, we [were] binding sheaves in the field, and, lo, my sheaf arose, and also stood upright; and, behold, your sheaves stood round about, and made obeisance to my sheaf.
Genesis 37:8	And his brethren said to him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the more for his dreams, and for his words.
Genesis 37:9	And he dreamed yet another dream, and told it his brethren, and said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream more; and, behold, the sun and the moon and the eleven stars made obeisance to me.
Genesis 37:10	And he told [it] to his father, and to his brethren: and his father rebuked him, and said unto him, What [is] this dream that thou hast dreamed? Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to bow down ourselves to thee to the earth?
Genesis 37:11	And his brethren envied him; but his father observed the saying.
Genesis 37:12	And his brethren went to feed their father’s flock in Shechem.
Genesis 37:13	And Israel said unto Joseph, Do not thy brethren feed [the flock] in Shechem? come, and I will send thee unto them. And he said to him, Here [am I].
Genesis 37:14	And he said to him, Go, I pray thee, see whether it be well with thy brethren, and well with the flocks; and bring me word again. So he sent him out of the vale of Hebron, and he came to Shechem.
Genesis 37:15	And a certain man found him, and, behold, [he was] wandering in the field: and the man asked him, saying, What seekest thou?
Genesis 37:16	And he said, I seek my brethren: tell me, I pray thee, where they feed [their flocks].
Genesis 37:17	And the man said, They are departed hence; for I heard them say, Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brethren, and found them in Dothan.
Genesis 37:18	And when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto them, they conspired against him to slay him.
Genesis 37:19	And they said one to another, Behold, this dreamer cometh.
Genesis 37:20	Come now therefore, and let us slay him, and cast him into some pit, and we will say, Some evil beast hath devoured him: and we shall see what will become of his dreams.
Genesis 37:21	And Reuben heard [it], and he delivered him out of their hands; and said, Let us not kill him.
Genesis 37:22	And Reuben said unto them, Shed no blood, [but] cast him into this pit that [is] in the wilderness, and lay no hand upon him; that he might rid him out of their hands, to deliver him to his father again.
Genesis 37:23	And it came to pass, when Joseph was come unto his brethren, that they stript Joseph out of his coat, [his] coat of [many] colours that [was] on him;
Genesis 37:24	And they took him, and cast him into a pit: and the pit [was] empty, [there was] no water in it.
Genesis 37:25	And they sat down to eat bread: and they lifted up their eyes and looked, and, behold, a company of Ishmeelites came from Gilead with their camels bearing spicery and balm and myrrh, going to carry [it] down to Egypt.
Genesis 37:26	And Judah said unto his brethren, What profit [is it] if we slay our brother, and conceal his blood?
Genesis 37:27	Come, and let us sell him to the Ishmeelites, and let not our hand be upon him; for he [is] our brother [and] our flesh. And his brethren were content.
Genesis 37:28	Then there passed by Midianites merchantmen; and they drew and lifted up Joseph out of the pit, and sold Joseph to the Ishmeelites for twenty [pieces] of silver: and they brought Joseph into Egypt.
Genesis 37:29	And Reuben returned unto the pit; and, behold, Joseph [was] not in the pit; and he rent his clothes.
Genesis 37:30	And he returned unto his brethren, and said, The child [is] not; and I, whither shall I go?
Genesis 37:31	And they took Joseph’s coat, and killed a kid of the goats, and dipped the coat in the blood;
Genesis 37:32	And they sent the coat of [many] colours, and they brought [it] to their father; and said, This have we found: know now whether it [be] thy son’s coat or no.
Genesis 37:33	And he knew it, and said, [It is] my son’s coat; an evil beast hath devoured him; Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces.
Genesis 37:34	And Jacob rent his clothes, and put sackcloth upon his loins, and mourned for his son many days.
Genesis 37:35	And all his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him; but he refused to be comforted; and he said, For I will go down into the grave unto my son mourning. Thus his father wept for him.
Genesis 37:36	And the Midianites sold him into Egypt unto Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh’s, [and] captain of the guard.
Genesis 38:1	And it came to pass at that time, that Judah went down from his brethren, and turned in to a certain Adullamite, whose name [was] Hirah.
Genesis 38:2	And Judah saw there a daughter of a certain Canaanite, whose name [was] Shuah; and he took her, and went in unto her.
Genesis 38:3	And she conceived, and bare a son; and he called his name Er.
Genesis 38:4	And she conceived again, and bare a son; and she called his name Onan.
Genesis 38:5	And she yet again conceived, and bare a son; and called his name Shelah: and he was at Chezib, when she bare him.
Genesis 38:6	And Judah took a wife for Er his firstborn, whose name [was] Tamar.
Genesis 38:7	And Er, Judah’s firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the LORD; and the LORD slew him.
Genesis 38:8	And Judah said unto Onan, Go in unto thy brother’s wife, and marry her, and raise up seed to thy brother.
Genesis 38:9	And Onan knew that the seed should not be his; and it came to pass, when he went in unto his brother’s wife, that he spilled [it] on the ground, lest that he should give seed to his brother.
Genesis 38:10	And the thing which he did displeased the LORD: wherefore he slew him also.
Genesis 38:11	Then said Judah to Tamar his daughter in law, Remain a widow at thy father’s house, till Shelah my son be grown: for he said, Lest peradventure he die also, as his brethren [did]. And Tamar went and dwelt in her father’s house.
Genesis 38:12	And in process of time the daughter of Shuah Judah’s wife died; and Judah was comforted, and went up unto his sheepshearers to Timnath, he and his friend Hirah the Adullamite.
Genesis 38:13	And it was told Tamar, saying, Behold thy father in law goeth up to Timnath to shear his sheep.
Genesis 38:14	And she put her widow’s garments off from her, and covered her with a vail, and wrapped herself, and sat in an open place, which [is] by the way to Timnath; for she saw that Shelah was grown, and she was not given unto him to wife.
Genesis 38:15	When Judah saw her, he thought her [to be] an harlot; because she had covered her face.
Genesis 38:16	And he turned unto her by the way, and said, Go to, I pray thee, let me come in unto thee; (for he knew not that she [was] his daughter in law.) And she said, What wilt thou give me, that thou mayest come in unto me?
Genesis 38:17	And he said, I will send [thee] a kid from the flock. And she said, Wilt thou give [me] a pledge, till thou send [it]?
Genesis 38:18	And he said, What pledge shall I give thee? And she said, Thy signet, and thy bracelets, and thy staff that [is] in thine hand. And he gave [it] her, and came in unto her, and she conceived by him.
Genesis 38:19	And she arose, and went away, and laid by her vail from her, and put on the garments of her widowhood.
Genesis 38:20	And Judah sent the kid by the hand of his friend the Adullamite, to receive [his] pledge from the woman’s hand: but he found her not.
Genesis 38:21	Then he asked the men of that place, saying, Where [is] the harlot, that [was] openly by the way side? And they said, There was no harlot in this [place].
Genesis 38:22	And he returned to Judah, and said, I cannot find her; and also the men of the place said, [that] there was no harlot in this [place].
Genesis 38:23	And Judah said, Let her take [it] to her, lest we be shamed: behold, I sent this kid, and thou hast not found her.
Genesis 38:24	And it came to pass about three months after, that it was told Judah, saying, Tamar thy daughter in law hath played the harlot; and also, behold, she [is] with child by whoredom. And Judah said, Bring her forth, and let her be burnt.
Genesis 38:25	When she [was] brought forth, she sent to her father in law, saying, By the man, whose these [are, am] I with child: and she said, Discern, I pray thee, whose [are] these, the signet, and bracelets, and staff.
Genesis 38:26	And Judah acknowledged [them], and said, She hath been more righteous than I; because that I gave her not to Shelah my son. And he knew her again no more.
Genesis 38:27	And it came to pass in the time of her travail, that, behold, twins [were] in her womb.
Genesis 38:28	And it came to pass, when she travailed, that [the one] put out [his] hand: and the midwife took and bound upon his hand a scarlet thread, saying, This came out first.
Genesis 38:29	And it came to pass, as he drew back his hand, that, behold, his brother came out: and she said, How hast thou broken forth? [this] breach [be] upon thee: therefore his name was called Pharez.
Genesis 38:30	And afterward came out his brother, that had the scarlet thread upon his hand: and his name was called Zarah.
Genesis 39:1	And Joseph was brought down to Egypt; and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him of the hands of the Ishmeelites, which had brought him down thither.
Genesis 39:2	And the LORD was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man; and he was in the house of his master the Egyptian.
Genesis 39:3	And his master saw that the LORD [was] with him, and that the LORD made all that he did to prosper in his hand.
Genesis 39:4	And Joseph found grace in his sight, and he served him: and he made him overseer over his house, and all [that] he had he put into his hand.
Genesis 39:5	And it came to pass from the time [that] he had made him overseer in his house, and over all that he had, that the LORD blessed the Egyptian’s house for Joseph’s sake; and the blessing of the LORD was upon all that he had in the house, and in the field.
Genesis 39:6	And he left all that he had in Joseph’s hand; and he knew not ought he had, save the bread which he did eat. And Joseph was [a] goodly [person], and well favoured.
Genesis 39:7	And it came to pass after these things, that his master’s wife cast her eyes upon Joseph; and she said, Lie with me.
Genesis 39:8	But he refused, and said unto his master’s wife, Behold, my master wotteth not what [is] with me in the house, and he hath committed all that he hath to my hand;
Genesis 39:9	[There is] none greater in this house than I; neither hath he kept back any thing from me but thee, because thou [art] his wife: how then can I do this great wickedness, and sin against God?
Genesis 39:10	And it came to pass, as she spake to Joseph day by day, that he hearkened not unto her, to lie by her, [or] to be with her.
Genesis 39:11	And it came to pass about this time, that [Joseph] went into the house to do his business; and [there was] none of the men of the house there within.
Genesis 39:12	And she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me: and he left his garment in her hand, and fled, and got him out.
Genesis 39:13	And it came to pass, when she saw that he had left his garment in her hand, and was fled forth,
Genesis 39:14	That she called unto the men of her house, and spake unto them, saying, See, he hath brought in an Hebrew unto us to mock us; he came in unto me to lie with me, and I cried with a loud voice:
Genesis 39:15	And it came to pass, when he heard that I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment with me, and fled, and got him out.
Genesis 39:16	And she laid up his garment by her, until his lord came home.
Genesis 39:17	And she spake unto him according to these words, saying, The Hebrew servant, which thou hast brought unto us, came in unto me to mock me:
Genesis 39:18	And it came to pass, as I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment with me, and fled out.
Genesis 39:19	And it came to pass, when his master heard the words of his wife, which she spake unto him, saying, After this manner did thy servant to me; that his wrath was kindled.
Genesis 39:20	And Joseph’s master took him, and put him into the prison, a place where the king’s prisoners [were] bound: and he was there in the prison.
Genesis 39:21	But the LORD was with Joseph, and shewed him mercy, and gave him favour in the sight of the keeper of the prison.
Genesis 39:22	And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph’s hand all the prisoners that [were] in the prison; and whatsoever they did there, he was the doer [of it].
Genesis 39:23	The keeper of the prison looked not to any thing [that was] under his hand; because the LORD was with him, and [that] which he did, the LORD made [it] to prosper.
Genesis 40:1	And it came to pass after these things, [that] the butler of the king of Egypt and [his] baker had offended their lord the king of Egypt.
Genesis 40:2	And Pharaoh was wroth against two [of] his officers, against the chief of the butlers, and against the chief of the bakers.
Genesis 40:3	And he put them in ward in the house of the captain of the guard, into the prison, the place where Joseph [was] bound.
Genesis 40:4	And the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them, and he served them: and they continued a season in ward.
Genesis 40:5	And they dreamed a dream both of them, each man his dream in one night, each man according to the interpretation of his dream, the butler and the baker of the king of Egypt, which [were] bound in the prison.
Genesis 40:6	And Joseph came in unto them in the morning, and looked upon them, and, behold, they [were] sad.
Genesis 40:7	And he asked Pharaoh’s officers that [were] with him in the ward of his lord’s house, saying, Wherefore look ye [so] sadly to day?
Genesis 40:8	And they said unto him, We have dreamed a dream, and [there is] no interpreter of it. And Joseph said unto them, [Do] not interpretations [belong] to God? tell me [them], I pray you.
Genesis 40:9	And the chief butler told his dream to Joseph, and said to him, In my dream, behold, a vine [was] before me;
Genesis 40:10	And in the vine [were] three branches: and it [was] as though it budded, [and] her blossoms shot forth; and the clusters thereof brought forth ripe grapes:
Genesis 40:11	And Pharaoh’s cup [was] in my hand: and I took the grapes, and pressed them into Pharaoh’s cup, and I gave the cup into Pharaoh’s hand.
Genesis 40:12	And Joseph said unto him, This [is] the interpretation of it: The three branches [are] three days:
Genesis 40:13	Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thine head, and restore thee unto thy place: and thou shalt deliver Pharaoh’s cup into his hand, after the former manner when thou wast his butler.
Genesis 40:14	But think on me when it shall be well with thee, and shew kindness, I pray thee, unto me, and make mention of me unto Pharaoh, and bring me out of this house:
Genesis 40:15	For indeed I was stolen away out of the land of the Hebrews: and here also have I done nothing that they should put me into the dungeon.
Genesis 40:16	When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good, he said unto Joseph, I also [was] in my dream, and, behold, [I had] three white baskets on my head:
Genesis 40:17	And in the uppermost basket [there was] of all manner of bakemeats for Pharaoh; and the birds did eat them out of the basket upon my head.
Genesis 40:18	And Joseph answered and said, This [is] the interpretation thereof: The three baskets [are] three days:
Genesis 40:19	Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thy head from off thee, and shall hang thee on a tree; and the birds shall eat thy flesh from off thee.
Genesis 40:20	And it came to pass the third day, [which was] Pharaoh’s birthday, that he made a feast unto all his servants: and he lifted up the head of the chief butler and of the chief baker among his servants.
Genesis 40:21	And he restored the chief butler unto his butlership again; and he gave the cup into Pharaoh’s hand:
Genesis 40:22	But he hanged the chief baker: as Joseph had interpreted to them.
Genesis 40:23	Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgat him.
Genesis 41:1	And it came to pass at the end of two full years, that Pharaoh dreamed: and, behold, he stood by the river.
Genesis 41:2	And, behold, there came up out of the river seven well favoured kine and fatfleshed; and they fed in a meadow.
Genesis 41:3	And, behold, seven other kine came up after them out of the river, ill favoured and leanfleshed; and stood by the [other] kine upon the brink of the river.
Genesis 41:4	And the ill favoured and leanfleshed kine did eat up the seven well favoured and fat kine. So Pharaoh awoke.
Genesis 41:5	And he slept and dreamed the second time: and, behold, seven ears of corn came up upon one stalk, rank and good.
Genesis 41:6	And, behold, seven thin ears and blasted with the east wind sprung up after them.
Genesis 41:7	And the seven thin ears devoured the seven rank and full ears. And Pharaoh awoke, and, behold, [it was] a dream.
Genesis 41:8	And it came to pass in the morning that his spirit was troubled; and he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt, and all the wise men thereof: and Pharaoh told them his dream; but [there was] none that could interpret them unto Pharaoh.
Genesis 41:9	Then spake the chief butler unto Pharaoh, saying, I do remember my faults this day:
Genesis 41:10	Pharaoh was wroth with his servants, and put me in ward in the captain of the guard’s house, [both] me and the chief baker:
Genesis 41:11	And we dreamed a dream in one night, I and he; we dreamed each man according to the interpretation of his dream.
Genesis 41:12	And [there was] there with us a young man, an Hebrew, servant to the captain of the guard; and we told him, and he interpreted to us our dreams; to each man according to his dream he did interpret.
Genesis 41:13	And it came to pass, as he interpreted to us, so it was; me he restored unto mine office, and him he hanged.
Genesis 41:14	Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him hastily out of the dungeon: and he shaved [himself], and changed his raiment, and came in unto Pharaoh.
Genesis 41:15	And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I have dreamed a dream, and [there is] none that can interpret it: and I have heard say of thee, [that] thou canst understand a dream to interpret it.
Genesis 41:16	And Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, [It is] not in me: God shall give Pharaoh an answer of peace.
Genesis 41:17	And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, In my dream, behold, I stood upon the bank of the river:
Genesis 41:18	And, behold, there came up out of the river seven kine, fatfleshed and well favoured; and they fed in a meadow:
Genesis 41:19	And, behold, seven other kine came up after them, poor and very ill favoured and leanfleshed, such as I never saw in all the land of Egypt for badness:
Genesis 41:20	And the lean and the ill favoured kine did eat up the first seven fat kine:
Genesis 41:21	And when they had eaten them up, it could not be known that they had eaten them; but they [were] still ill favoured, as at the beginning. So I awoke.
Genesis 41:22	And I saw in my dream, and, behold, seven ears came up in one stalk, full and good:
Genesis 41:23	And, behold, seven ears, withered, thin, [and] blasted with the east wind, sprung up after them:
Genesis 41:24	And the thin ears devoured the seven good ears: and I told [this] unto the magicians; but [there was] none that could declare [it] to me.
Genesis 41:25	And Joseph said unto Pharaoh, The dream of Pharaoh [is] one: God hath shewed Pharaoh what he [is] about to do.
Genesis 41:26	The seven good kine [are] seven years; and the seven good ears [are] seven years: the dream [is] one.
Genesis 41:27	And the seven thin and ill favoured kine that came up after them [are] seven years; and the seven empty ears blasted with the east wind shall be seven years of famine.
Genesis 41:28	This [is] the thing which I have spoken unto Pharaoh: What God [is] about to do he sheweth unto Pharaoh.
Genesis 41:29	Behold, there come seven years of great plenty throughout all the land of Egypt:
Genesis 41:30	And there shall arise after them seven years of famine; and all the plenty shall be forgotten in the land of Egypt; and the famine shall consume the land;
Genesis 41:31	And the plenty shall not be known in the land by reason of that famine following; for it [shall be] very grievous.
Genesis 41:32	And for that the dream was doubled unto Pharaoh twice; [it is] because the thing [is] established by God, and God will shortly bring it to pass.
Genesis 41:33	Now therefore let Pharaoh look out a man discreet and wise, and set him over the land of Egypt.
Genesis 41:34	Let Pharaoh do [this], and let him appoint officers over the land, and take up the fifth part of the land of Egypt in the seven plenteous years.
Genesis 41:35	And let them gather all the food of those good years that come, and lay up corn under the hand of Pharaoh, and let them keep food in the cities.
Genesis 41:36	And that food shall be for store to the land against the seven years of famine, which shall be in the land of Egypt; that the land perish not through the famine.
Genesis 41:37	And the thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of all his servants.
Genesis 41:38	And Pharaoh said unto his servants, Can we find [such a one] as this [is], a man in whom the Spirit of God [is]?
Genesis 41:39	And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, Forasmuch as God hath shewed thee all this, [there is] none so discreet and wise as thou [art]:
Genesis 41:40	Thou shalt be over my house, and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled: only in the throne will I be greater than thou.
Genesis 41:41	And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, See, I have set thee over all the land of Egypt.
Genesis 41:42	And Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand, and put it upon Joseph’s hand, and arrayed him in vestures of fine linen, and put a gold chain about his neck;
Genesis 41:43	And he made him to ride in the second chariot which he had; and they cried before him, Bow the knee: and he made him [ruler] over all the land of Egypt.
Genesis 41:44	And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I [am] Pharaoh, and without thee shall no man lift up his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt.
Genesis 41:45	And Pharaoh called Joseph’s name Zaphnathpaaneah; and he gave him to wife Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On. And Joseph went out over [all] the land of Egypt.
Genesis 41:46	And Joseph [was] thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh, and went throughout all the land of Egypt.
Genesis 41:47	And in the seven plenteous years the earth brought forth by handfuls.
Genesis 41:48	And he gathered up all the food of the seven years, which were in the land of Egypt, and laid up the food in the cities: the food of the field, which [was] round about every city, laid he up in the same.
Genesis 41:49	And Joseph gathered corn as the sand of the sea, very much, until he left numbering; for [it was] without number.
Genesis 41:50	And unto Joseph were born two sons before the years of famine came, which Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On bare unto him.
Genesis 41:51	And Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh: For God, [said he], hath made me forget all my toil, and all my father’s house.
Genesis 41:52	And the name of the second called he Ephraim: For God hath caused me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction.
Genesis 41:53	And the seven years of plenteousness, that was in the land of Egypt, were ended.
Genesis 41:54	And the seven years of dearth began to come, according as Joseph had said: and the dearth was in all lands; but in all the land of Egypt there was bread.
Genesis 41:55	And when all the land of Egypt was famished, the people cried to Pharaoh for bread: and Pharaoh said unto all the Egyptians, Go unto Joseph; what he saith to you, do.
Genesis 41:56	And the famine was over all the face of the earth: And Joseph opened all the storehouses, and sold unto the Egyptians; and the famine waxed sore in the land of Egypt.
Genesis 41:57	And all countries came into Egypt to Joseph for to buy [corn]; because that the famine was [so] sore in all lands.
Genesis 42:1	Now when Jacob saw that there was corn in Egypt, Jacob said unto his sons, Why do ye look one upon another?
Genesis 42:2	And he said, Behold, I have heard that there is corn in Egypt: get you down thither, and buy for us from thence; that we may live, and not die.
Genesis 42:3	And Joseph’s ten brethren went down to buy corn in Egypt.
Genesis 42:4	But Benjamin, Joseph’s brother, Jacob sent not with his brethren; for he said, Lest peradventure mischief befall him.
Genesis 42:5	And the sons of Israel came to buy [corn] among those that came: for the famine was in the land of Canaan.
Genesis 42:6	And Joseph [was] the governor over the land, [and] he [it was] that sold to all the people of the land: and Joseph’s brethren came, and bowed down themselves before him [with] their faces to the earth.
Genesis 42:7	And Joseph saw his brethren, and he knew them, but made himself strange unto them, and spake roughly unto them; and he said unto them, Whence come ye? And they said, From the land of Canaan to buy food.
Genesis 42:8	And Joseph knew his brethren, but they knew not him.
Genesis 42:9	And Joseph remembered the dreams which he dreamed of them, and said unto them, Ye [are] spies; to see the nakedness of the land ye are come.
Genesis 42:10	And they said unto him, Nay, my lord, but to buy food are thy servants come.
Genesis 42:11	We [are] all one man’s sons; we [are] true [men], thy servants are no spies.
Genesis 42:12	And he said unto them, Nay, but to see the nakedness of the land ye are come.
Genesis 42:13	And they said, Thy servants [are] twelve brethren, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan; and, behold, the youngest [is] this day with our father, and one [is] not.
Genesis 42:14	And Joseph said unto them, That [is it] that I spake unto you, saying, Ye [are] spies:
Genesis 42:15	Hereby ye shall be proved: By the life of Pharaoh ye shall not go forth hence, except your youngest brother come hither.
Genesis 42:16	Send one of you, and let him fetch your brother, and ye shall be kept in prison, that your words may be proved, whether [there be any] truth in you: or else by the life of Pharaoh surely ye [are] spies.
Genesis 42:17	And he put them all together into ward three days.
Genesis 42:18	And Joseph said unto them the third day, This do, and live; [for] I fear God:
Genesis 42:19	If ye [be] true [men], let one of your brethren be bound in the house of your prison: go ye, carry corn for the famine of your houses:
Genesis 42:20	But bring your youngest brother unto me; so shall your words be verified, and ye shall not die. And they did so.
Genesis 42:21	And they said one to another, We [are] verily guilty concerning our brother, in that we saw the anguish of his soul, when he besought us, and we would not hear; therefore is this distress come upon us.
Genesis 42:22	And Reuben answered them, saying, Spake I not unto you, saying, Do not sin against the child; and ye would not hear? therefore, behold, also his blood is required.
Genesis 42:23	And they knew not that Joseph understood [them]; for he spake unto them by an interpreter.
Genesis 42:24	And he turned himself about from them, and wept; and returned to them again, and communed with them, and took from them Simeon, and bound him before their eyes.
Genesis 42:25	Then Joseph commanded to fill their sacks with corn, and to restore every man’s money into his sack, and to give them provision for the way: and thus did he unto them.
Genesis 42:26	And they laded their asses with the corn, and departed thence.
Genesis 42:27	And as one of them opened his sack to give his ass provender in the inn, he espied his money; for, behold, it [was] in his sack’s mouth.
Genesis 42:28	And he said unto his brethren, My money is restored; and, lo, [it is] even in my sack: and their heart failed [them], and they were afraid, saying one to another, What [is] this [that] God hath done unto us?
Genesis 42:29	And they came unto Jacob their father unto the land of Canaan, and told him all that befell unto them; saying,
Genesis 42:30	The man, [who is] the lord of the land, spake roughly to us, and took us for spies of the country.
Genesis 42:31	And we said unto him, We [are] true [men]; we are no spies:
Genesis 42:32	We [be] twelve brethren, sons of our father; one [is] not, and the youngest [is] this day with our father in the land of Canaan.
Genesis 42:33	And the man, the lord of the country, said unto us, Hereby shall I know that ye [are] true [men]; leave one of your brethren [here] with me, and take [food for] the famine of your households, and be gone:
Genesis 42:34	And bring your youngest brother unto me: then shall I know that ye [are] no spies, but [that] ye [are] true [men: so] will I deliver you your brother, and ye shall traffick in the land.
Genesis 42:35	And it came to pass as they emptied their sacks, that, behold, every man’s bundle of money [was] in his sack: and when [both] they and their father saw the bundles of money, they were afraid.
Genesis 42:36	And Jacob their father said unto them, Me have ye bereaved [of my children]: Joseph [is] not, and Simeon [is] not, and ye will take Benjamin [away]: all these things are against me.
Genesis 42:37	And Reuben spake unto his father, saying, Slay my two sons, if I bring him not to thee: deliver him into my hand, and I will bring him to thee again.
Genesis 42:38	And he said, My son shall not go down with you; for his brother is dead, and he is left alone: if mischief befall him by the way in the which ye go, then shall ye bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave.
Genesis 43:1	And the famine [was] sore in the land.
Genesis 43:2	And it came to pass, when they had eaten up the corn which they had brought out of Egypt, their father said unto them, Go again, buy us a little food.
Genesis 43:3	And Judah spake unto him, saying, The man did solemnly protest unto us, saying, Ye shall not see my face, except your brother [be] with you.
Genesis 43:4	If thou wilt send our brother with us, we will go down and buy thee food:
Genesis 43:5	But if thou wilt not send [him], we will not go down: for the man said unto us, Ye shall not see my face, except your brother [be] with you.
Genesis 43:6	And Israel said, Wherefore dealt ye [so] ill with me, [as] to tell the man whether ye had yet a brother?
Genesis 43:7	And they said, The man asked us straitly of our state, and of our kindred, saying, [Is] your father yet alive? have ye [another] brother? and we told him according to the tenor of these words: could we certainly know that he would say, Bring your brother down?
Genesis 43:8	And Judah said unto Israel his father, Send the lad with me, and we will arise and go; that we may live, and not die, both we, and thou, [and] also our little ones.
Genesis 43:9	I will be surety for him; of my hand shalt thou require him: if I bring him not unto thee, and set him before thee, then let me bear the blame for ever:
Genesis 43:10	For except we had lingered, surely now we had returned this second time.
Genesis 43:11	And their father Israel said unto them, If [it must be] so now, do this; take of the best fruits in the land in your vessels, and carry down the man a present, a little balm, and a little honey, spices, and myrrh, nuts, and almonds:
Genesis 43:12	And take double money in your hand; and the money that was brought again in the mouth of your sacks, carry [it] again in your hand; peradventure it [was] an oversight:
Genesis 43:13	Take also your brother, and arise, go again unto the man:
Genesis 43:14	And God Almighty give you mercy before the man, that he may send away your other brother, and Benjamin. If I be bereaved [of my children], I am bereaved.
Genesis 43:15	And the men took that present, and they took double money in their hand, and Benjamin; and rose up, and went down to Egypt, and stood before Joseph.
Genesis 43:16	And when Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to the ruler of his house, Bring [these] men home, and slay, and make ready; for [these] men shall dine with me at noon.
Genesis 43:17	And the man did as Joseph bade; and the man brought the men into Joseph’s house.
Genesis 43:18	And the men were afraid, because they were brought into Joseph’s house; and they said, Because of the money that was returned in our sacks at the first time are we brought in; that he may seek occasion against us, and fall upon us, and take us for bondmen, and our asses.
Genesis 43:19	And they came near to the steward of Joseph’s house, and they communed with him at the door of the house,
Genesis 43:20	And said, O sir, we came indeed down at the first time to buy food:
Genesis 43:21	And it came to pass, when we came to the inn, that we opened our sacks, and, behold, [every] man’s money [was] in the mouth of his sack, our money in full weight: and we have brought it again in our hand.
Genesis 43:22	And other money have we brought down in our hands to buy food: we cannot tell who put our money in our sacks.
Genesis 43:23	And he said, Peace [be] to you, fear not: your God, and the God of your father, hath given you treasure in your sacks: I had your money. And he brought Simeon out unto them.
Genesis 43:24	And the man brought the men into Joseph’s house, and gave [them] water, and they washed their feet; and he gave their asses provender.
Genesis 43:25	And they made ready the present against Joseph came at noon: for they heard that they should eat bread there.
Genesis 43:26	And when Joseph came home, they brought him the present which [was] in their hand into the house, and bowed themselves to him to the earth.
Genesis 43:27	And he asked them of [their] welfare, and said, [Is] your father well, the old man of whom ye spake? [Is] he yet alive?
Genesis 43:28	And they answered, Thy servant our father [is] in good health, he [is] yet alive. And they bowed down their heads, and made obeisance.
Genesis 43:29	And he lifted up his eyes, and saw his brother Benjamin, his mother’s son, and said, [Is] this your younger brother, of whom ye spake unto me? And he said, God be gracious unto thee, my son.
Genesis 43:30	And Joseph made haste; for his bowels did yearn upon his brother: and he sought [where] to weep; and he entered into [his] chamber, and wept there.
Genesis 43:31	And he washed his face, and went out, and refrained himself, and said, Set on bread.
Genesis 43:32	And they set on for him by himself, and for them by themselves, and for the Egyptians, which did eat with him, by themselves: because the Egyptians might not eat bread with the Hebrews; for that [is] an abomination unto the Egyptians.
Genesis 43:33	And they sat before him, the firstborn according to his birthright, and the youngest according to his youth: and the men marvelled one at another.
Genesis 43:34	And he took [and sent] messes unto them from before him: but Benjamin’s mess was five times so much as any of theirs. And they drank, and were merry with him.
Genesis 44:1	And he commanded the steward of his house, saying, Fill the men’s sacks [with] food, as much as they can carry, and put every man’s money in his sack’s mouth.
Genesis 44:2	And put my cup, the silver cup, in the sack’s mouth of the youngest, and his corn money. And he did according to the word that Joseph had spoken.
Genesis 44:3	As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away, they and their asses.
Genesis 44:4	[And] when they were gone out of the city, [and] not [yet] far off, Joseph said unto his steward, Up, follow after the men; and when thou dost overtake them, say unto them, Wherefore have ye rewarded evil for good?
Genesis 44:5	[Is] not this [it] in which my lord drinketh, and whereby indeed he divineth? ye have done evil in so doing.
Genesis 44:6	And he overtook them, and he spake unto them these same words.
Genesis 44:7	And they said unto him, Wherefore saith my lord these words? God forbid that thy servants should do according to this thing:
Genesis 44:8	Behold, the money, which we found in our sacks’ mouths, we brought again unto thee out of the land of Canaan: how then should we steal out of thy lord’s house silver or gold?
Genesis 44:9	With whomsoever of thy servants it be found, both let him die, and we also will be my lord’s bondmen.
Genesis 44:10	And he said, Now also [let] it [be] according unto your words: he with whom it is found shall be my servant; and ye shall be blameless.
Genesis 44:11	Then they speedily took down every man his sack to the ground, and opened every man his sack.
Genesis 44:12	And he searched, [and] began at the eldest, and left at the youngest: and the cup was found in Benjamin’s sack.
Genesis 44:13	Then they rent their clothes, and laded every man his ass, and returned to the city.
Genesis 44:14	And Judah and his brethren came to Joseph’s house; for he [was] yet there: and they fell before him on the ground.
Genesis 44:15	And Joseph said unto them, What deed [is] this that ye have done? wot ye not that such a man as I can certainly divine?
Genesis 44:16	And Judah said, What shall we say unto my lord? what shall we speak? or how shall we clear ourselves? God hath found out the iniquity of thy servants: behold, we [are] my lord’s servants, both we, and [he] also with whom the cup is found.
Genesis 44:17	And he said, God forbid that I should do so: [but] the man in whose hand the cup is found, he shall be my servant; and as for you, get you up in peace unto your father.
Genesis 44:18	Then Judah came near unto him, and said, Oh my lord, let thy servant, I pray thee, speak a word in my lord’s ears, and let not thine anger burn against thy servant: for thou [art] even as Pharaoh.
Genesis 44:19	My lord asked his servants, saying, Have ye a father, or a brother?
Genesis 44:20	And we said unto my lord, We have a father, an old man, and a child of his old age, a little one; and his brother is dead, and he alone is left of his mother, and his father loveth him.
Genesis 44:21	And thou saidst unto thy servants, Bring him down unto me, that I may set mine eyes upon him.
Genesis 44:22	And we said unto my lord, The lad cannot leave his father: for [if] he should leave his father, [his father] would die.
Genesis 44:23	And thou saidst unto thy servants, Except your youngest brother come down with you, ye shall see my face no more.
Genesis 44:24	And it came to pass when we came up unto thy servant my father, we told him the words of my lord.
Genesis 44:25	And our father said, Go again, [and] buy us a little food.
Genesis 44:26	And we said, We cannot go down: if our youngest brother be with us, then will we go down: for we may not see the man’s face, except our youngest brother [be] with us.
Genesis 44:27	And thy servant my father said unto us, Ye know that my wife bare me two [sons]:
Genesis 44:28	And the one went out from me, and I said, Surely he is torn in pieces; and I saw him not since:
Genesis 44:29	And if ye take this also from me, and mischief befall him, ye shall bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave.
Genesis 44:30	Now therefore when I come to thy servant my father, and the lad [be] not with us; seeing that his life is bound up in the lad’s life;
Genesis 44:31	It shall come to pass, when he seeth that the lad [is] not [with us], that he will die: and thy servants shall bring down the gray hairs of thy servant our father with sorrow to the grave.
Genesis 44:32	For thy servant became surety for the lad unto my father, saying, If I bring him not unto thee, then I shall bear the blame to my father for ever.
Genesis 44:33	Now therefore, I pray thee, let thy servant abide instead of the lad a bondman to my lord; and let the lad go up with his brethren.
Genesis 44:34	For how shall I go up to my father, and the lad [be] not with me? lest peradventure I see the evil that shall come on my father.
Genesis 45:1	Then Joseph could not refrain himself before all them that stood by him; and he cried, Cause every man to go out from me. And there stood no man with him, while Joseph made himself known unto his brethren.
Genesis 45:2	And he wept aloud: and the Egyptians and the house of Pharaoh heard.
Genesis 45:3	And Joseph said unto his brethren, I [am] Joseph; doth my father yet live? And his brethren could not answer him; for they were troubled at his presence.
Genesis 45:4	And Joseph said unto his brethren, Come near to me, I pray you. And they came near. And he said, I [am] Joseph your brother, whom ye sold into Egypt.
Genesis 45:5	Now therefore be not grieved, nor angry with yourselves, that ye sold me hither: for God did send me before you to preserve life.
Genesis 45:6	For these two years [hath] the famine [been] in the land: and yet [there are] five years, in the which [there shall] neither [be] earing nor harvest.
Genesis 45:7	And God sent me before you to preserve you a posterity in the earth, and to save your lives by a great deliverance.
Genesis 45:8	So now [it was] not you [that] sent me hither, but God: and he hath made me a father to Pharaoh, and lord of all his house, and a ruler throughout all the land of Egypt.
Genesis 45:9	Haste ye, and go up to my father, and say unto him, Thus saith thy son Joseph, God hath made me lord of all Egypt: come down unto me, tarry not:
Genesis 45:10	And thou shalt dwell in the land of Goshen, and thou shalt be near unto me, thou, and thy children, and thy children’s children, and thy flocks, and thy herds, and all that thou hast:
Genesis 45:11	And there will I nourish thee; for yet [there are] five years of famine; lest thou, and thy household, and all that thou hast, come to poverty.
Genesis 45:12	And, behold, your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin, that [it is] my mouth that speaketh unto you.
Genesis 45:13	And ye shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt, and of all that ye have seen; and ye shall haste and bring down my father hither.
Genesis 45:14	And he fell upon his brother Benjamin’s neck, and wept; and Benjamin wept upon his neck.
Genesis 45:15	Moreover he kissed all his brethren, and wept upon them: and after that his brethren talked with him.
Genesis 45:16	And the fame thereof was heard in Pharaoh’s house, saying, Joseph’s brethren are come: and it pleased Pharaoh well, and his servants.
Genesis 45:17	And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, Say unto thy brethren, This do ye; lade your beasts, and go, get you unto the land of Canaan;
Genesis 45:18	And take your father and your households, and come unto me: and I will give you the good of the land of Egypt, and ye shall eat the fat of the land.
Genesis 45:19	Now thou art commanded, this do ye; take you wagons out of the land of Egypt for your little ones, and for your wives, and bring your father, and come.
Genesis 45:20	Also regard not your stuff; for the good of all the land of Egypt [is] yours.
Genesis 45:21	And the children of Israel did so: and Joseph gave them wagons, according to the commandment of Pharaoh, and gave them provision for the way.
Genesis 45:22	To all of them he gave each man changes of raiment; but to Benjamin he gave three hundred [pieces] of silver, and five changes of raiment.
Genesis 45:23	And to his father he sent after this [manner]; ten asses laden with the good things of Egypt, and ten she asses laden with corn and bread and meat for his father by the way.
Genesis 45:24	So he sent his brethren away, and they departed: and he said unto them, See that ye fall not out by the way.
Genesis 45:25	And they went up out of Egypt, and came into the land of Canaan unto Jacob their father,
Genesis 45:26	And told him, saying, Joseph [is] yet alive, and he [is] governor over all the land of Egypt. And Jacob’s heart fainted, for he believed them not.
Genesis 45:27	And they told him all the words of Joseph, which he had said unto them: and when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry him, the spirit of Jacob their father revived:
Genesis 45:28	And Israel said, [It is] enough; Joseph my son [is] yet alive: I will go and see him before I die.
Genesis 46:1	And Israel took his journey with all that he had, and came to Beersheba, and offered sacrifices unto the God of his father Isaac.
Genesis 46:2	And God spake unto Israel in the visions of the night, and said, Jacob, Jacob. And he said, Here [am] I.
Genesis 46:3	And he said, I [am] God, the God of thy father: fear not to go down into Egypt; for I will there make of thee a great nation:
Genesis 46:4	I will go down with thee into Egypt; and I will also surely bring thee up [again]: and Joseph shall put his hand upon thine eyes.
Genesis 46:5	And Jacob rose up from Beersheba: and the sons of Israel carried Jacob their father, and their little ones, and their wives, in the wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him.
Genesis 46:6	And they took their cattle, and their goods, which they had gotten in the land of Canaan, and came into Egypt, Jacob, and all his seed with him:
Genesis 46:7	His sons, and his sons’ sons with him, his daughters, and his sons’ daughters, and all his seed brought he with him into Egypt.
Genesis 46:8	And these [are] the names of the children of Israel, which came into Egypt, Jacob and his sons: Reuben, Jacob’s firstborn.
Genesis 46:9	And the sons of Reuben; Hanoch, and Phallu, and Hezron, and Carmi.
Genesis 46:10	And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman.
Genesis 46:11	And the sons of Levi; Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
Genesis 46:12	And the sons of Judah; Er, and Onan, and Shelah, and Pharez, and Zerah: but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. And the sons of Pharez were Hezron and Hamul.
Genesis 46:13	And the sons of Issachar; Tola, and Phuvah, and Job, and Shimron.
Genesis 46:14	And the sons of Zebulun; Sered, and Elon, and Jahleel.
Genesis 46:15	These [be] the sons of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob in Padanaram, with his daughter Dinah: all the souls of his sons and his daughters [were] thirty and three.
Genesis 46:16	And the sons of Gad; Ziphion, and Haggi, Shuni, and Ezbon, Eri, and Arodi, and Areli.
Genesis 46:17	And the sons of Asher; Jimnah, and Ishuah, and Isui, and Beriah, and Serah their sister: and the sons of Beriah; Heber, and Malchiel.
Genesis 46:18	These [are] the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah his daughter, and these she bare unto Jacob, [even] sixteen souls.
Genesis 46:19	The sons of Rachel Jacob’s wife; Joseph, and Benjamin.
Genesis 46:20	And unto Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manasseh and Ephraim, which Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On bare unto him.
Genesis 46:21	And the sons of Benjamin [were] Belah, and Becher, and Ashbel, Gera, and Naaman, Ehi, and Rosh, Muppim, and Huppim, and Ard.
Genesis 46:22	These [are] the sons of Rachel, which were born to Jacob: all the souls [were] fourteen.
Genesis 46:23	And the sons of Dan; Hushim.
Genesis 46:24	And the sons of Naphtali; Jahzeel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shillem.
Genesis 46:25	These [are] the sons of Bilhah, which Laban gave unto Rachel his daughter, and she bare these unto Jacob: all the souls [were] seven.
Genesis 46:26	All the souls that came with Jacob into Egypt, which came out of his loins, besides Jacob’s sons’ wives, all the souls [were] threescore and six;
Genesis 46:27	And the sons of Joseph, which were born him in Egypt, [were] two souls: all the souls of the house of Jacob, which came into Egypt, [were] threescore and ten.
Genesis 46:28	And he sent Judah before him unto Joseph, to direct his face unto Goshen; and they came into the land of Goshen.
Genesis 46:29	And Joseph made ready his chariot, and went up to meet Israel his father, to Goshen, and presented himself unto him; and he fell on his neck, and wept on his neck a good while.
Genesis 46:30	And Israel said unto Joseph, Now let me die, since I have seen thy face, because thou [art] yet alive.
Genesis 46:31	And Joseph said unto his brethren, and unto his father’s house, I will go up, and shew Pharaoh, and say unto him, My brethren, and my father’s house, which [were] in the land of Canaan, are come unto me;
Genesis 46:32	And the men [are] shepherds, for their trade hath been to feed cattle; and they have brought their flocks, and their herds, and all that they have.
Genesis 46:33	And it shall come to pass, when Pharaoh shall call you, and shall say, What [is] your occupation?
Genesis 46:34	That ye shall say, Thy servants’ trade hath been about cattle from our youth even until now, both we, [and] also our fathers: that ye may dwell in the land of Goshen; for every shepherd [is] an abomination unto the Egyptians.
Genesis 47:1	Then Joseph came and told Pharaoh, and said, My father and my brethren, and their flocks, and their herds, and all that they have, are come out of the land of Canaan; and, behold, they [are] in the land of Goshen.
Genesis 47:2	And he took some of his brethren, [even] five men, and presented them unto Pharaoh.
Genesis 47:3	And Pharaoh said unto his brethren, What [is] your occupation? And they said unto Pharaoh, Thy servants [are] shepherds, both we, [and] also our fathers.
Genesis 47:4	They said moreover unto Pharaoh, For to sojourn in the land are we come; for thy servants have no pasture for their flocks; for the famine [is] sore in the land of Canaan: now therefore, we pray thee, let thy servants dwell in the land of Goshen.
Genesis 47:5	And Pharaoh spake unto Joseph, saying, Thy father and thy brethren are come unto thee:
Genesis 47:6	The land of Egypt [is] before thee; in the best of the land make thy father and brethren to dwell; in the land of Goshen let them dwell: and if thou knowest [any] men of activity among them, then make them rulers over my cattle.
Genesis 47:7	And Joseph brought in Jacob his father, and set him before Pharaoh: and Jacob blessed Pharaoh.
Genesis 47:8	And Pharaoh said unto Jacob, How old [art] thou?
Genesis 47:9	And Jacob said unto Pharaoh, The days of the years of my pilgrimage [are] an hundred and thirty years: few and evil have the days of the years of my life been, and have not attained unto the days of the years of the life of my fathers in the days of their pilgrimage.
Genesis 47:10	And Jacob blessed Pharaoh, and went out from before Pharaoh.
Genesis 47:11	And Joseph placed his father and his brethren, and gave them a possession in the land of Egypt, in the best of the land, in the land of Rameses, as Pharaoh had commanded.
Genesis 47:12	And Joseph nourished his father, and his brethren, and all his father’s household, with bread, according to [their] families.
Genesis 47:13	And [there was] no bread in all the land; for the famine [was] very sore, so that the land of Egypt and [all] the land of Canaan fainted by reason of the famine.
Genesis 47:14	And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, for the corn which they bought: and Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh’s house.
Genesis 47:15	And when money failed in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, all the Egyptians came unto Joseph, and said, Give us bread: for why should we die in thy presence? for the money faileth.
Genesis 47:16	And Joseph said, Give your cattle; and I will give you for your cattle, if money fail.
Genesis 47:17	And they brought their cattle unto Joseph: and Joseph gave them bread [in exchange] for horses, and for the flocks, and for the cattle of the herds, and for the asses: and he fed them with bread for all their cattle for that year.
Genesis 47:18	When that year was ended, they came unto him the second year, and said unto him, We will not hide [it] from my lord, how that our money is spent; my lord also hath our herds of cattle; there is not ought left in the sight of my lord, but our bodies, and our lands:
Genesis 47:19	Wherefore shall we die before thine eyes, both we and our land? buy us and our land for bread, and we and our land will be servants unto Pharaoh: and give [us] seed, that we may live, and not die, that the land be not desolate.
Genesis 47:20	And Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh; for the Egyptians sold every man his field, because the famine prevailed over them: so the land became Pharaoh’s.
Genesis 47:21	And as for the people, he removed them to cities from [one] end of the borders of Egypt even to the [other] end thereof.
Genesis 47:22	Only the land of the priests bought he not; for the priests had a portion [assigned them] of Pharaoh, and did eat their portion which Pharaoh gave them: wherefore they sold not their lands.
Genesis 47:23	Then Joseph said unto the people, Behold, I have bought you this day and your land for Pharaoh: lo, [here is] seed for you, and ye shall sow the land.
Genesis 47:24	And it shall come to pass in the increase, that ye shall give the fifth [part] unto Pharaoh, and four parts shall be your own, for seed of the field, and for your food, and for them of your households, and for food for your little ones.
Genesis 47:25	And they said, Thou hast saved our lives: let us find grace in the sight of my lord, and we will be Pharaoh’s servants.
Genesis 47:26	And Joseph made it a law over the land of Egypt unto this day, [that] Pharaoh should have the fifth [part]; except the land of the priests only, [which] became not Pharaoh’s.
Genesis 47:27	And Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt, in the country of Goshen; and they had possessions therein, and grew, and multiplied exceedingly.
Genesis 47:28	And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years: so the whole age of Jacob was an hundred forty and seven years.
Genesis 47:29	And the time drew nigh that Israel must die: and he called his son Joseph, and said unto him, If now I have found grace in thy sight, put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh, and deal kindly and truly with me; bury me not, I pray thee, in Egypt:
Genesis 47:30	But I will lie with my fathers, and thou shalt carry me out of Egypt, and bury me in their buryingplace. And he said, I will do as thou hast said.
Genesis 47:31	And he said, Swear unto me. And he sware unto him. And Israel bowed himself upon the bed’s head.
Genesis 48:1	And it came to pass after these things, that [one] told Joseph, Behold, thy father [is] sick: and he took with him his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim.
Genesis 48:2	And [one] told Jacob, and said, Behold, thy son Joseph cometh unto thee: and Israel strengthened himself, and sat upon the bed.
Genesis 48:3	And Jacob said unto Joseph, God Almighty appeared unto me at Luz in the land of Canaan, and blessed me,
Genesis 48:4	And said unto me, Behold, I will make thee fruitful, and multiply thee, and I will make of thee a multitude of people; and will give this land to thy seed after thee [for] an everlasting possession.
Genesis 48:5	And now thy two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh, which were born unto thee in the land of Egypt before I came unto thee into Egypt, [are] mine; as Reuben and Simeon, they shall be mine.
Genesis 48:6	And thy issue, which thou begettest after them, shall be thine, [and] shall be called after the name of their brethren in their inheritance.
Genesis 48:7	And as for me, when I came from Padan, Rachel died by me in the land of Canaan in the way, when yet [there was] but a little way to come unto Ephrath: and I buried her there in the way of Ephrath; the same [is] Bethlehem.
Genesis 48:8	And Israel beheld Joseph’s sons, and said, Who [are] these?
Genesis 48:9	And Joseph said unto his father, They [are] my sons, whom God hath given me in this [place]. And he said, Bring them, I pray thee, unto me, and I will bless them.
Genesis 48:10	Now the eyes of Israel were dim for age, [so that] he could not see. And he brought them near unto him; and he kissed them, and embraced them.
Genesis 48:11	And Israel said unto Joseph, I had not thought to see thy face: and, lo, God hath shewed me also thy seed.
Genesis 48:12	And Joseph brought them out from between his knees, and he bowed himself with his face to the earth.
Genesis 48:13	And Joseph took them both, Ephraim in his right hand toward Israel’s left hand, and Manasseh in his left hand toward Israel’s right hand, and brought [them] near unto him.
Genesis 48:14	And Israel stretched out his right hand, and laid [it] upon Ephraim’s head, who [was] the younger, and his left hand upon Manasseh’s head, guiding his hands wittingly; for Manasseh [was] the firstborn.
Genesis 48:15	And he blessed Joseph, and said, God, before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac did walk, the God which fed me all my life long unto this day,
Genesis 48:16	The Angel which redeemed me from all evil, bless the lads; and let my name be named on them, and the name of my fathers Abraham and Isaac; and let them grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth.
Genesis 48:17	And when Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand upon the head of Ephraim, it displeased him: and he held up his father’s hand, to remove it from Ephraim’s head unto Manasseh’s head.
Genesis 48:18	And Joseph said unto his father, Not so, my father: for this [is] the firstborn; put thy right hand upon his head.
Genesis 48:19	And his father refused, and said, I know [it], my son, I know [it]: he also shall become a people, and he also shall be great: but truly his younger brother shall be greater than he, and his seed shall become a multitude of nations.
Genesis 48:20	And he blessed them that day, saying, In thee shall Israel bless, saying, God make thee as Ephraim and as Manasseh: and he set Ephraim before Manasseh.
Genesis 48:21	And Israel said unto Joseph, Behold, I die: but God shall be with you, and bring you again unto the land of your fathers.
Genesis 48:22	Moreover I have given to thee one portion above thy brethren, which I took out of the hand of the Amorite with my sword and with my bow.
Genesis 49:1	And Jacob called unto his sons, and said, Gather yourselves together, that I may tell you [that] which shall befall you in the last days.
Genesis 49:2	Gather yourselves together, and hear, ye sons of Jacob; and hearken unto Israel your father.
Genesis 49:3	Reuben, thou [art] my firstborn, my might, and the beginning of my strength, the excellency of dignity, and the excellency of power:
Genesis 49:4	Unstable as water, thou shalt not excel; because thou wentest up to thy father’s bed; then defiledst thou [it]: he went up to my couch.
Genesis 49:5	Simeon and Levi [are] brethren; instruments of cruelty [are in] their habitations.
Genesis 49:6	O my soul, come not thou into their secret; unto their assembly, mine honour, be not thou united: for in their anger they slew a man, and in their selfwill they digged down a wall.
Genesis 49:7	Cursed [be] their anger, for [it was] fierce; and their wrath, for it was cruel: I will divide them in Jacob, and scatter them in Israel.
Genesis 49:8	Judah, thou [art he] whom thy brethren shall praise: thy hand [shall be] in the neck of thine enemies; thy father’s children shall bow down before thee.
Genesis 49:9	Judah [is] a lion’s whelp: from the prey, my son, thou art gone up: he stooped down, he couched as a lion, and as an old lion; who shall rouse him up?
Genesis 49:10	The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, nor a lawgiver from between his feet, until Shiloh come; and unto him [shall] the gathering of the people [be].
Genesis 49:11	Binding his foal unto the vine, and his ass’s colt unto the choice vine; he washed his garments in wine, and his clothes in the blood of grapes:
Genesis 49:12	His eyes [shall be] red with wine, and his teeth white with milk.
Genesis 49:13	Zebulun shall dwell at the haven of the sea; and he [shall be] for an haven of ships; and his border [shall be] unto Zidon.
Genesis 49:14	Issachar [is] a strong ass couching down between two burdens:
Genesis 49:15	And he saw that rest [was] good, and the land that [it was] pleasant; and bowed his shoulder to bear, and became a servant unto tribute.
Genesis 49:16	Dan shall judge his people, as one of the tribes of Israel.
Genesis 49:17	Dan shall be a serpent by the way, an adder in the path, that biteth the horse heels, so that his rider shall fall backward.
Genesis 49:18	I have waited for thy salvation, O LORD.
Genesis 49:19	Gad, a troop shall overcome him: but he shall overcome at the last.
Genesis 49:20	Out of Asher his bread [shall be] fat, and he shall yield royal dainties.
Genesis 49:21	Naphtali [is] a hind let loose: he giveth goodly words.
Genesis 49:22	Joseph [is] a fruitful bough, [even] a fruitful bough by a well; [whose] branches run over the wall:
Genesis 49:23	The archers have sorely grieved him, and shot [at him], and hated him:
Genesis 49:24	But his bow abode in strength, and the arms of his hands were made strong by the hands of the mighty [God] of Jacob; (from thence [is] the shepherd, the stone of Israel:)
Genesis 49:25	[Even] by the God of thy father, who shall help thee; and by the Almighty, who shall bless thee with blessings of heaven above, blessings of the deep that lieth under, blessings of the breasts, and of the womb:
Genesis 49:26	The blessings of thy father have prevailed above the blessings of my progenitors unto the utmost bound of the everlasting hills: they shall be on the head of Joseph, and on the crown of the head of him that was separate from his brethren.
Genesis 49:27	Benjamin shall ravin [as] a wolf: in the morning he shall devour the prey, and at night he shall divide the spoil.
Genesis 49:28	All these [are] the twelve tribes of Israel: and this [is it] that their father spake unto them, and blessed them; every one according to his blessing he blessed them.
Genesis 49:29	And he charged them, and said unto them, I am to be gathered unto my people: bury me with my fathers in the cave that [is] in the field of Ephron the Hittite,
Genesis 49:30	In the cave that [is] in the field of Machpelah, which [is] before Mamre, in the land of Canaan, which Abraham bought with the field of Ephron the Hittite for a possession of a buryingplace.
Genesis 49:31	There they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife; there they buried Isaac and Rebekah his wife; and there I buried Leah.
Genesis 49:32	The purchase of the field and of the cave that [is] therein [was] from the children of Heth.
Genesis 49:33	And when Jacob had made an end of commanding his sons, he gathered up his feet into the bed, and yielded up the ghost, and was gathered unto his people.
Genesis 50:1	And Joseph fell upon his father’s face, and wept upon him, and kissed him.
Genesis 50:2	And Joseph commanded his servants the physicians to embalm his father: and the physicians embalmed Israel.
Genesis 50:3	And forty days were fulfilled for him; for so are fulfilled the days of those which are embalmed: and the Egyptians mourned for him threescore and ten days.
Genesis 50:4	And when the days of his mourning were past, Joseph spake unto the house of Pharaoh, saying, If now I have found grace in your eyes, speak, I pray you, in the ears of Pharaoh, saying,
Genesis 50:5	My father made me swear, saying, Lo, I die: in my grave which I have digged for me in the land of Canaan, there shalt thou bury me. Now therefore let me go up, I pray thee, and bury my father, and I will come again.
Genesis 50:6	And Pharaoh said, Go up, and bury thy father, according as he made thee swear.
Genesis 50:7	And Joseph went up to bury his father: and with him went up all the servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his house, and all the elders of the land of Egypt,
Genesis 50:8	And all the house of Joseph, and his brethren, and his father’s house: only their little ones, and their flocks, and their herds, they left in the land of Goshen.
Genesis 50:9	And there went up with him both chariots and horsemen: and it was a very great company.
Genesis 50:10	And they came to the threshingfloor of Atad, which [is] beyond Jordan, and there they mourned with a great and very sore lamentation: and he made a mourning for his father seven days.
Genesis 50:11	And when the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, saw the mourning in the floor of Atad, they said, This [is] a grievous mourning to the Egyptians: wherefore the name of it was called Abelmizraim, which [is] beyond Jordan.
Genesis 50:12	And his sons did unto him according as he commanded them:
Genesis 50:13	For his sons carried him into the land of Canaan, and buried him in the cave of the field of Machpelah, which Abraham bought with the field for a possession of a buryingplace of Ephron the Hittite, before Mamre.
Genesis 50:14	And Joseph returned into Egypt, he, and his brethren, and all that went up with him to bury his father, after he had buried his father.
Genesis 50:15	And when Joseph’s brethren saw that their father was dead, they said, Joseph will peradventure hate us, and will certainly requite us all the evil which we did unto him.
Genesis 50:16	And they sent a messenger unto Joseph, saying, Thy father did command before he died, saying,
Genesis 50:17	So shall ye say unto Joseph, Forgive, I pray thee now, the trespass of thy brethren, and their sin; for they did unto thee evil: and now, we pray thee, forgive the trespass of the servants of the God of thy father. And Joseph wept when they spake unto him.
Genesis 50:18	And his brethren also went and fell down before his face; and they said, Behold, we [be] thy servants.
Genesis 50:19	And Joseph said unto them, Fear not: for [am] I in the place of God?
Genesis 50:20	But as for you, ye thought evil against me; [but] God meant it unto good, to bring to pass, as [it is] this day, to save much people alive.
Genesis 50:21	Now therefore fear ye not: I will nourish you, and your little ones. And he comforted them, and spake kindly unto them.
Genesis 50:22	And Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he, and his father’s house: and Joseph lived an hundred and ten years.
Genesis 50:23	And Joseph saw Ephraim’s children of the third [generation]: the children also of Machir the son of Manasseh were brought up upon Joseph’s knees.
Genesis 50:24	And Joseph said unto his brethren, I die: and God will surely visit you, and bring you out of this land unto the land which he sware to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.
Genesis 50:25	And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you, and ye shall carry up my bones from hence.
Genesis 50:26	So Joseph died, [being] an hundred and ten years old: and they embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt.






