
2 Nephi 5
Chapter 5

2 Nephi 5:1
 1 Behold, it came to pass that I, Nephi, did cry much unto the
Lord my God, because of the anger of my brethren.

2 Nephi 5:2
 2 But behold, their anger did increase against me, insomuch that
they did seek to take away my life.

2 Nephi 5:3
 3 Yea, they did murmur against me, saying: Our younger brother
thinks to rule over us; and we have had much trial because of
him; wherefore, now let us slay him, that we may not be afflicted
more because of his words.  For behold, we will not have him to
be our ruler; for it belongs unto us, who are the elder brethren,
to rule over this people.

2 Nephi 5:4
 4 Now I do not write upon these plates all the words which they
murmured against me.  But it sufficeth me to say, that they did
seek to take away my life.

2 Nephi 5:5
 5 And it came to pass that the Lord did warn me, that I, Nephi,
should depart from them and flee into the wilderness, and all
those who would go with me.

2 Nephi 5:6
 6 Wherefore, it came to pass that I, Nephi, did take my family,
and also Zoram and his family, and Sam, mine elder brother and
his family, and Jacob and Joseph, my younger brethren, and also
my sisters, and all those who would go with me.  And all those
who would go with me were those who believed in the warnings and
the revelations of God; wherefore, they did hearken unto my
words.

2 Nephi 5:7
 7 And we did take our tents and whatsoever things were possible
for us, and did journey in the wilderness for the space of many
days.  And after we had journeyed for the space of many days we
did pitch our tents.

2 Nephi 5:8
 8 And my people would that we should call the name of the place
Nephi; wherefore, we did call it Nephi.

2 Nephi 5:9
 9 And all those who were with me did take upon them to call
themselves the people of Nephi.

2 Nephi 5:10
 10 And we did observe to keep the judgments, and the statutes,
and the commandments of the Lord in all things according to the
law of Moses.

2 Nephi 5:11
 11 And the Lord was with us; and we did prosper exceedingly; for
we did sow seed, and we did reap again in abundance.  And we
began to raise flocks, and herds, and animals of every kind.

2 Nephi 5:12
 12 And I, Nephi, had also brought the records which were
engraven upon the plates of brass; and also the ball, or compass,
which was prepared for my father by the hand of the Lord,
according to that which is written.

2 Nephi 5:13
 13 And it came to pass that we began to prosper exceedingly, and
to multiply in the land.

2 Nephi 5:14
 14 And I, Nephi, did take the sword of Laban, and after the
manner of it did make many swords, lest by any means the people
who were now called Lamanites should come upon us and destroy us;
for I knew their hatred towards me and my children and those who
were called my people.

2 Nephi 5:15
 15 And I did teach my people to build buildings, and to work in
all manner of wood, and of iron, and of copper, and of brass, and
of steel, and of gold, and of silver, and of precious ores, which
were in great abundance.

2 Nephi 5:16
 16 And I, Nephi, did build a temple; and I did construct it
after the manner of the temple of Solomon save it were not built
of so many precious things; for they were not to be found upon
the land, wherefore, it could not be built like unto Solomon's
temple.  But the manner of the construction was like unto the
temple of Solomon; and the workmanship thereof was exceedingly
fine.

2 Nephi 5:17
 17 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did cause my people to be
industrious, and to labor with their hands.

2 Nephi 5:18
 18 And it came to pass that they would that I should be their
king.  But I, Nephi, was desirous that they should have no king;
nevertheless, I did for them according to that which was in my
power.

2 Nephi 5:19
 19 And behold, the words of the Lord had been fulfilled unto my
brethren, which he spake concerning them, that I should be their
ruler and their teacher.  Wherefore, I had been their ruler and
their teacher, according to the commandments of the Lord, until
the time they sought to take away my life.

2 Nephi 5:20
 20 Wherefore, the word of the Lord was fulfilled which he spake
unto me, saying that: Inasmuch as they will not hearken unto thy
words they shall be cut off from the presence of the Lord.  And
behold, they were cut off from his presence.

2 Nephi 5:21
 21 And he had caused the cursing to come upon them, yea, even a
sore cursing, because of their iniquity.  For behold, they had
hardened their hearts against him, that they had become like unto
a flint; wherefore, as they were white, and exceedingly fair and
delightsome, that they might not be enticing unto my people the
Lord God did cause a skin of blackness to come upon them.

2 Nephi 5:22
 22 And thus saith the Lord God: I will cause that they shall be
loathsome unto thy people, save they shall repent of their
iniquities.

2 Nephi 5:23
 23 And cursed shall be the seed of him that mixeth with their
seed; for they shall be cursed even with the same cursing.  And
the Lord spake it, and it was done.

2 Nephi 5:24
 24 And because of their cursing which was upon them they did
become an idle people, full of mischief and subtlety, and did
seek in the wilderness for beasts of prey.

2 Nephi 5:25
 25 And the Lord God said unto me: They shall be a scourge unto
thy seed, to stir them up in remembrance of me; and inasmuch as
they will not remember me, and hearken unto my words, they shall
scourge them even unto destruction.

2 Nephi 5:26
 26 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did consecrate Jacob and
Joseph, that they should be priests and teachers over the land of
my people.

2 Nephi 5:27
 27 And it came to pass that we lived after the manner of
happiness.

2 Nephi 5:28
 28 And thirty years had passed away from the time we left
Jerusalem.

2 Nephi 5:29
 29 And I, Nephi, had kept the records upon my plates, which I
had made, of my people thus far.

2 Nephi 5:30
 30 And it came to pass that the Lord God said unto me: Make
other plates; and thou shalt engraven many things upon them which
are good in my sight, for the profit of thy people.

2 Nephi 5:31
 31 Wherefore, I, Nephi, to be obedient to the commandments of
the Lord, went and made these plates upon which I have engraven
these things.

2 Nephi 5:32
 32 And I engraved that which is pleasing unto God.  And if my
people are pleased with the things of God they will be pleased
with mine engravings which are upon these plates.

2 Nephi 5:33
 33 And if my people desire to know the more particular part of
the history of my people they must search mine other plates.

2 Nephi 5:34
 34 And it sufficeth me to say that forty years had passed away,
and we had already had wars and contentions with our brethren.




2 Nephi 11
Chapter 11

2 Nephi 11:1
 1 And now, Jacob spake many more things to my people at that
time; nevertheless only these things have I caused to be written,
for the things which I have written sufficeth me.

2 Nephi 11:2
 2 And now I, Nephi, write more of the words of Isaiah, for my
soul delighteth in his words.  For I will liken his words unto my
people, and I will send them forth unto all my children, for he
verily saw my Redeemer, even as I have seen him.

2 Nephi 11:3
 3 And my brother, Jacob, also has seen him as I have seen him;
wherefore, I will send their words forth unto my children to
prove unto them that my words are true.  Wherefore, by the words
of three, God hath said, I will establish my word.  Nevertheless,
God sendeth more witnesses, and he proveth all his words.

2 Nephi 11:4
 4 Behold, my soul delighteth in proving unto my people the truth
of the coming of Christ; for, for this end hath the law of Moses
been given; and all things which have been given of God from the
beginning of the world, unto man, are the typifying of him.

2 Nephi 11:5
 5 And also my soul delighteth in the covenants of the Lord which
he hath made to our fathers; yea, my soul delighteth in his
grace, and in his justice, and power, and mercy in the great and
eternal plan of deliverance from death.

2 Nephi 11:6
 6 And my soul delighteth in proving unto my people that save
Christ should come all men must perish.

2 Nephi 11:7
 7 For if there be no Christ there be no God; and if there be no
God we are not, for there could have been no creation.  But there
is a God, and he is Christ, and he cometh in the fulness of his
own time.

2 Nephi 11:8
 8 And now I write some of the words of Isaiah, that whoso of my
people shall see these words may lift up their hearts and rejoice
for all men.  Now these are the words, and ye may liken them unto
you and unto all men.



2 Nephi 25
Chapter 25

2 Nephi 25:1
 1 Now I, Nephi, do speak somewhat concerning the words which I
have written, which have been spoken by the mouth of Isaiah.  For
behold, Isaiah spake many things which were hard for many of my
people to understand; for they know not concerning the manner of
prophesying among the Jews.

2 Nephi 25:2
 2 For I, Nephi, have not taught them many things concerning the
manner of the Jews; for their works were works of darkness, and
their doings were doings of abominations.

2 Nephi 25:3
 3 Wherefore, I write unto my people, unto all those that shall
receive hereafter these things which I write, that they may know
the judgments of God, that they come upon all nations, according
to the word which he hath spoken.

2 Nephi 25:4
 4 Wherefore, hearken, O my people, which are of the house of
Israel, and give ear unto my words; for because the words of
Isaiah are not plain unto you, nevertheless they are plain unto
all those that are filled with the spirit of prophecy.  But I
give unto you a prophecy, according to the spirit which is in me;
wherefore I shall prophesy according to the plainness which hath
been with me from the time that I came out from Jerusalem with my
father; for behold, my soul delighteth in plainness unto my
people, that they may learn.

2 Nephi 25:5
 5 Yea, and my soul delighteth in the words of Isaiah, for I came
out from Jerusalem, and mine eyes hath beheld the things of the
Jews, and I know that the Jews do understand the things of the
prophets, and there is none other people that understand the
things which were spoken unto the Jews like unto them, save it be
that they are taught after the manner of the things of the Jews.

2 Nephi 25:6
 6 But behold, I, Nephi, have not taught my children after the
manner of the Jews; but behold, I, of myself, have dwelt at
Jerusalem, wherefore I know concerning the regions round about;
and I have made mention unto my children concerning the judgments
of God, which hath come to pass among the Jews, unto my children,
according to all that which Isaiah hath spoken, and I do not
write them.

2 Nephi 25:7
 7 But behold, I proceed with mine own prophecy, according to my
plainness; in the which I know that no man can err; nevertheless,
in the days that the prophecies of Isaiah shall be fulfilled men
shall know of a surety, at the times when they shall come to
pass.

2 Nephi 25:8
 8 Wherefore, they are of worth unto the children of men, and he
that supposeth that they are not, unto them will I speak
particularly, and confine the words unto mine own people; for I
know that they shall be of great worth unto them in the last
days; for in that day shall they understand them; wherefore, for
their good have I written them.

2 Nephi 25:9
 9 And as one generation hath been destroyed among the Jews
because of iniquity, even so have they been destroyed from
generation to generation according to their iniquities; and never
hath any of them been destroyed save it were foretold them by the
prophets of the Lord.

2 Nephi 25:10
 10 Wherefore, it hath been told them concerning the destruction
which should come upon them, immediately after my father left
Jerusalem; nevertheless, they hardened their hearts; and
according to my prophecy they have been destroyed, save it be
those which are carried away captive into Babylon.

2 Nephi 25:11
 11 And now this I speak because of the spirit which is in me. 
And notwithstanding they have been carried away they shall return
again, and possess the land of Jerusalem; wherefore, they shall
be restored again to the land of their inheritance.

2 Nephi 25:12
 12 But, behold, they shall have wars, and rumors of wars; and
when the day cometh that the Only Begotten of the Father, yea,
even the Father of heaven and of earth, shall manifest himself
unto them in the flesh, behold, they will reject him, because of
their iniquities, and the hardness of their hearts, and the
stiffness of their necks.

2 Nephi 25:13
 13 Behold, they will crucify him; and after he is laid in a
sepulchre for the space of three days he shall rise from the
dead, with healing in his wings; and all those who shall believe
on his name shall be saved in the kingdom of God.  Wherefore, my
soul delighteth to prophesy concerning him, for I have seen his
day, and my heart doth magnify his holy name.

2 Nephi 25:14
 14 And behold it shall come to pass that after the Messiah hath
risen from the dead, and hath manifested himself unto his people,
unto as many as will believe on his name, behold, Jerusalem shall
be destroyed again; for wo unto them that fight against God and
the people of his church.

2 Nephi 25:15
 15 Wherefore, the Jews shall be scattered among all nations;
yea, and also Babylon shall be destroyed; wherefore, the Jews
shall be scattered by other nations.

2 Nephi 25:16
 16 And after they have been scattered, and the Lord God hath
scourged them by other nations for the space of many generations,
yea, even down from generation to generation until they shall be
persuaded to believe in Christ, the Son of God, and the
atonement, which is infinite for all mankind--and when that day
shall come that they shall believe in Christ, and worship the
Father in his name, with pure hearts and clean hands, and look
not forward any more for another Messiah, then, at that time, the
day will come that it must needs be expedient that they should
believe these things.

2 Nephi 25:17
 17 And the Lord will set his hand again the second time to
restore his people from their lost and fallen state.  Wherefore,
he will proceed to do a marvelous work and a wonder among the
children of men.

2 Nephi 25:18
 18 Wherefore, he shall bring forth his words unto them, which
words shall judge them at the last day, for they shall be given
them for the purpose of convincing them of the true Messiah, who
was rejected by them; and unto the convincing of them that they
need not look forward any more for a Messiah to come, for there
should not any come, save it should be a false Messiah which
should deceive the people; for there is save one Messiah spoken
of by the prophets, and that Messiah is he who should be rejected
of the Jews.

2 Nephi 25:19
 19 For according to the words of the prophets, the Messiah
cometh in six hundred years from the time that my father left
Jerusalem; and according to the words of the prophets, and also
the word of the angel of God, his name shall be Jesus Christ, the
Son of God.

2 Nephi 25:20
 20 And now, my brethren, I have spoken plainly that ye cannot
err.  And as the Lord God liveth that brought Israel up out of
the land of Egypt, and gave unto Moses power that he should heal
the nations after they had been bitten by the poisonous serpents,
if they would cast their eyes unto the serpent which he did raise
up before them, and also gave him power that he should smite the
rock and the water should come forth; yea, behold I say unto you,
that as these things are true, and as the Lord God liveth, there
is none other name given under heaven save it be this Jesus
Christ, of which I have spoken, whereby man can be saved.

2 Nephi 25:21
 21 Wherefore, for this cause hath the Lord God promised unto me
that these things which I write shall be kept and preserved, and
handed down unto my seed, from generation to generation, that the
promise may be fulfilled unto Joseph, that his seed should never
perish as long as the earth should stand.

2 Nephi 25:22
 22 Wherefore, these things shall go from generation to
generation as long as the earth shall stand; and they shall go
according to the will and pleasure of God; and the nations who
shall possess them shall be judged of them according to the words
which are written.

2 Nephi 25:23
 23 For we labor diligently to write, to persuade our children,
and also our brethren, to believe in Christ, and to be reconciled
to God; for we know that it is by grace that we are saved, after
all we can do.

2 Nephi 25:24
 24 And, notwithstanding we believe in Christ, we keep the law of
Moses, and look forward with steadfastness unto Christ, until the
law shall be fulfilled.

2 Nephi 25:25
 25 For, for this end was the law given; wherefore the law hath
become dead unto us, and we are made alive in Christ because of
our faith; yet we keep the law because of the commandments.

2 Nephi 25:26
 26 And we talk of Christ, we rejoice in Christ, we preach of
Christ, we prophesy of Christ, and we write according to our
prophecies, that our children may know to what source they may
look for a remission of their sins.

2 Nephi 25:27
 27 Wherefore, we speak concerning the law that our children may
know the deadness of the law; and they, by knowing the deadness
of the law, may look forward unto that life which is in Christ,
and know for what end the law was given.  And after the law is
fulfilled in Christ, that they need not harden their hearts
against him when the law ought to be done away.

2 Nephi 25:28
 28 And now behold, my people, ye are a stiffnecked people;
wherefore, I have spoken plainly unto you, that ye cannot
misunderstand.  And the words which I have spoken shall stand as
a testimony against you; for they are sufficient to teach any man
the right way; for the right way is to believe in Christ and deny
him not; for by denying him ye also deny the prophets and the
law.

2 Nephi 25:29
 29 And now behold, I say unto you that the right way is to
believe in Christ, and deny him not; and Christ is the Holy One
of Israel; wherefore ye must bow down before him, and worship him
with all your might, mind, and strength, and your whole soul; and
if ye do this ye shall in nowise be cast out.

2 Nephi 25:30
 30 And, inasmuch as it shall be expedient, ye must keep the
performances and ordinances of God until the law shall be
fulfilled which was given unto Moses.

2 Nephi 26
Chapter 26

2 Nephi 26:1
 1 And after Christ shall have risen from the dead he shall show
himself unto you, my children, and my beloved brethren; and the
words which he shall speak unto you shall be the law which ye
shall do.

2 Nephi 26:2
 2 For behold, I say unto you that I have beheld that many
generations shall pass away, and there shall be great wars and
contentions among my people.

2 Nephi 26:3
 3 And after the Messiah shall come there shall be signs given
unto my people of his birth, and also of his death and
resurrection; and great and terrible shall that day be unto the
wicked, for they shall perish; and they perish because they cast
out the prophets, and the saints, and stone them, and slay them;
wherefore the cry of the blood of the saints shall ascend up to
God from the ground against them.

2 Nephi 26:4
 4 Wherefore, all those who are proud, and that do wickedly, the
day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of Hosts, for
they shall be as stubble.

2 Nephi 26:5
 5 And they that kill the prophets, and the saints, the depths of
the earth shall swallow them up, saith the Lord of Hosts; and
mountains shall cover them, and whirlwinds shall carry them away,
and buildings shall fall upon them and crush them to pieces and
grind them to powder.

2 Nephi 26:6
 6 And they shall be visited with thunderings, and lightnings,
and earthquakes, and all manner of destructions, for the fire of
the anger of the Lord shall be kindled against them, and they
shall be as stubble, and the day that cometh shall consume them,
saith the Lord of Hosts.

2 Nephi 26:7
 7 O the pain, and the anguish of my soul for the loss of the
slain of my people!  For I, Nephi, have seen it, and it well nigh
consumeth me before the presence of the Lord; but I must cry unto
my God: Thy ways are just.

2 Nephi 26:8
 8 But behold, the righteous that hearken unto the words of the
prophets, and destroy them not, but look forward unto Christ with
steadfastness for the signs which are given, notwithstanding all
persecution--behold, they are they which shall not perish.

2 Nephi 26:9
 9 But the Son of righteousness shall appear unto them; and he
shall heal them, and they shall have peace with him, until three
generations shall have passed away, and many of the fourth
generation shall have passed away in righteousness.

2 Nephi 26:10
 10 And when these things have passed away a speedy destruction
cometh unto my people; for, notwithstanding the pains of my soul,
I have seen it; wherefore, I know that it shall come to pass; and
they sell themselves for naught; for, for the reward of their
pride and their foolishness they shall reap destruction; for
because they yield unto the devil and choose works of darkness
rather than light, therefore they must go down to hell.

2 Nephi 26:11
 11 For the Spirit of the Lord will not always strive with man. 
And when the Spirit ceaseth to strive with man then cometh speedy
destruction, and this grieveth my soul.

2 Nephi 26:12
 12 And as I spake concerning the convincing of the Jews, that
Jesus is the very Christ, it must needs be that the Gentiles be
convinced also that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God;

2 Nephi 26:13
 13 And that he manifesteth himself unto all those who believe in
him, by the power of the Holy Ghost; yea, unto every nation,
kindred, tongue, and people, working mighty miracles, signs, and
wonders, among the children of men according to their faith.

2 Nephi 26:14
 14 But behold, I prophesy unto you concerning the last days;
concerning the days when the Lord God shall bring these things
forth unto the children of men.

2 Nephi 26:15
 15 After my seed and the seed of my brethren shall have dwindled
in unbelief, and shall have been smitten by the Gentiles; yea,
after the Lord God shall have camped against them round about,
and shall have laid siege against them with a mount, and raised
forts against them; and after they shall have been brought down
low in the dust, even that they are not, yet the words of the
righteous shall be written, and the prayers of the faithful shall
be heard, and all those who have dwindled in unbelief shall not
be forgotten.

2 Nephi 26:16
 16 For those who shall be destroyed shall speak unto them out of
the ground, and their speech shall be low out of the dust, and
their voice shall be as one that hath a familiar spirit; for the
Lord God will give unto him power, that he may whisper concerning
them, even as it were out of the ground; and their speech shall
whisper out of the dust.

2 Nephi 26:17
 17 For thus saith the Lord God: They shall write the things
which shall be done among them, and they shall be written and
sealed up in a book, and those who have dwindled in unbelief
shall not have them, for they seek to destroy the things of God.

2 Nephi 26:18
 18 Wherefore, as those who have been destroyed have been
destroyed speedily; and the multitude of their terrible ones
shall be as chaff that passeth away--yea, thus saith the Lord
God: It shall be at an instant, suddenly--

2 Nephi 26:19
 19 And it shall come to pass, that those who have dwindled in
unbelief shall be smitten by the hand of the Gentiles.

2 Nephi 26:20
 20 And the Gentiles are lifted up in the pride of their eyes,
and have stumbled, because of the greatness of their stumbling
block, that they have built up many churches; nevertheless, they
put down the power and miracles of God, and preach up unto
themselves their own wisdom and their own learning, that they may
get gain and grind upon the face of the poor.

2 Nephi 26:21
 21 And there are many churches built up which cause envyings,
and strifes, and malice.

2 Nephi 26:22
 22 And there are also secret combinations, even as in times of
old, according to the combinations of the devil, for he is the
founder of all these things; yea, the founder of murder, and
works of darkness; yea, and he leadeth them by the neck with a
flaxen cord, until he bindeth them with his strong cords forever.

2 Nephi 26:23
 23 For behold, my beloved brethren, I say unto you that the Lord
God worketh not in darkness.

2 Nephi 26:24
 24 He doeth not anything save it be for the benefit of the
world; for he loveth the world, even that he layeth down his own
life that he may draw all men unto him.  Wherefore, he commandeth
none that they shall not partake of his salvation.

2 Nephi 26:25
 25 Behold, doth he cry unto any, saying: Depart from me? 
Behold, I say unto you, Nay; but he saith: Come unto me all ye
ends of the earth, buy milk and honey, without money and without
price.

2 Nephi 26:26
 26 Behold, hath he commanded any that they should depart out of
the synagogues, or out of the houses of worship?  Behold, I say
unto you, Nay.

2 Nephi 26:27
 27 Hath he commanded any that they should not partake of his
salvation?  Behold I say unto you, Nay; but he hath given it free
for all men; and he hath commanded his people that they should
persuade all men to repentance.

2 Nephi 26:28
 28 Behold, hath the Lord commanded any that they should not
partake of his goodness?  Behold I say unto you, Nay; but all men
are privileged the one like unto the other, and none are
forbidden.

2 Nephi 26:29
 29 He commandeth that there shall be no priestcrafts; for,
behold priestcrafts are that men preach and set themselves up for
a light unto the world, that they may get gain and praise of the
world; but they seek not the welfare of Zion.

2 Nephi 26:30
 30 Behold, the Lord hath forbidden this thing; wherefore, the
Lord God hath given a commandment that all men should have
charity, which charity is love, and except they should have
charity they were nothing.  Wherefore, if they should have
charity they would not suffer the laborer in Zion to perish.

2 Nephi 26:31
 31 But the laborer in Zion shall labor for Zion; for if they
labor for money they shall perish.

2 Nephi 26:32
 32 And again, the Lord God hath commanded that men should not
murder; that they should not lie; that they should not steal;
that they should not take the name of the Lord their God in vain;
that they should not envy; that they should not have malice; that
they should not contend one with another; that they should not
commit whoredoms; and that they should do none of these things;
for whoso doeth them shall perish.

2 Nephi 26:33
 33 For none of these iniquities come of the Lord; for he doeth
that which is good among the children of men; and he doeth
nothing save it be plain unto the children of men; and he
inviteth them all to come unto him and partake of his goodness;
and he denieth none that come unto him, black and white, bond and
free, male and female; and he remembereth the heathen; and all
are alike unto God, both Jew and Gentile.



2 Nephi 27
Chapter 27

2 Nephi 27:1
 1 But, behold, in the last days, or in the days of the
Gentiles--yea, behold all the nations of the Gentiles and also
the Jews, both those who shall come upon this land and those who
shall be upon other lands, yea, even upon all the lands of the
earth, behold, they will be drunken with iniquity and all manner
of abominations--

2 Nephi 27:2
 2 And when that day shall come they shall be visited of the Lord
of Hosts, with thunder and with earthquake, and with a great
noise, and with storm, and with tempest, and with the flame of
devouring fire.

2 Nephi 27:3
 3 And all the nations that fight against Zion, and that distress
her, shall be as a dream of a night vision; yea, it shall be unto
them, even as unto a hungry man which dreameth, and behold he
eateth but he awaketh and his soul is empty; or like unto a
thirsty man which dreameth, and behold he drinketh but he awaketh
and behold he is faint, and his soul hath appetite; yea, even so
shall the multitude of all the nations be that fight against
Mount Zion.

2 Nephi 27:4
 4 For behold, all ye that doeth iniquity, stay yourselves and
wonder, for ye shall cry out, and cry; yea, ye shall be drunken
but not with wine, ye shall stagger but not with strong drink.

2 Nephi 27:5
 5 For behold, the Lord hath poured out upon you the spirit of
deep sleep.  For behold, ye have closed your eyes, and ye have
rejected the prophets; and your rulers, and the seers hath he
covered because of your iniquity.

2 Nephi 27:6
 6 And it shall come to pass that the Lord God shall bring forth
unto you the words of a book, and they shall be the words of them
which have slumbered.

2 Nephi 27:7
 7 And behold the book shall be sealed; and in the book shall be
a revelation from God, from the beginning of the world to the
ending thereof.

2 Nephi 27:8
 8 Wherefore, because of the things which are sealed up, the
things which are sealed shall not be delivered in the day of the
wickedness and abominations of the people.  Wherefore the book
shall be kept from them.

2 Nephi 27:9
 9 But the book shall be delivered unto a man, and he shall
deliver the words of the book, which are the words of those who
have slumbered in the dust, and he shall deliver these words unto
another;

2 Nephi 27:10
 10 But the words which are sealed he shall not deliver, neither
shall he deliver the book.  For the book shall be sealed by the
power of God, and the revelation which was sealed shall be kept
in the book until the own due time of the Lord, that they may
come forth; for behold, they reveal all things from the
foundation of the world unto the end thereof.

2 Nephi 27:11
 11 And the day cometh that the words of the book which were
sealed shall be read upon the house tops; and they shall be read
by the power of Christ; and all things shall be revealed unto the
children of men which ever have been among the children of men,
and which ever will be even unto the end of the earth.

2 Nephi 27:12
 12 Wherefore, at that day when the book shall be delivered unto
the man of whom I have spoken, the book shall be hid from the
eyes of the world, that the eyes of none shall behold it save it
be that three witnesses shall behold it, by the power of God,
besides him to whom the book shall be delivered; and they shall
testify to the truth of the book and the things therein.

2 Nephi 27:13
 13 And there is none other which shall view it, save it be a few
according to the will of God, to bear testimony of his word unto
the children of men; for the Lord God hath said that the words of
the faithful should speak as if it were from the dead.

2 Nephi 27:14
 14 Wherefore, the Lord God will proceed to bring forth the words
of the book; and in the mouth of as many witnesses as seemeth him
good will he establish his word; and wo be unto him that
rejecteth the word of God!

2 Nephi 27:15
 15 But behold, it shall come to pass that the Lord God shall say
unto him to whom he shall deliver the book: Take these words
which are not sealed and deliver them to another, that he may
show them unto the learned, saying: Read this, I pray thee.  And
the learned shall say: Bring hither the book, and I will read
them.

2 Nephi 27:16
 16 And now, because of the glory of the world and to get gain
will they say this, and not for the glory of God.

2 Nephi 27:17
 17 And the man shall say: I cannot bring the book, for it is
sealed.

2 Nephi 27:18
 18 Then shall the learned say: I cannot read it.

2 Nephi 27:19
 19 Wherefore it shall come to pass, that the Lord God will
deliver again the book and the words thereof to him that is not
learned; and the man that is not learned shall say: I am not
learned.

2 Nephi 27:20
 20 Then shall the Lord God say unto him: The learned shall not
read them, for they have rejected them, and I am able to do mine
own work; wherefore thou shalt read the words which I shall give
unto thee.

2 Nephi 27:21
 21 Touch not the things which are sealed, for I will bring them
forth in mine own due time; for I will show unto the children of
men that I am able to do mine own work.

2 Nephi 27:22
 22 Wherefore, when thou hast read the words which I have
commanded thee, and obtained the witnesses which I have promised
unto thee, then shalt thou seal up the book again, and hide it up
unto me, that I may preserve the words which thou hast not read,
until I shall see fit in mine own wisdom to reveal all things
unto the children of men.

2 Nephi 27:23
 23 For behold, I am God; and I am a God of miracles; and I will
show unto the world that I am the same yesterday, today, and
forever; and I work not among the children of men save it be
according to their faith.

2 Nephi 27:24
 24 And again it shall come to pass that the Lord shall say unto
him that shall read the words that shall be delivered him:





2 Nephi 28
Chapter 28

2 Nephi 28:1
 1 And now, behold, my brethren, I have spoken unto you,
according as the Spirit hath constrained me; wherefore, I know
that they must surely come to pass.

2 Nephi 28:2
 2 And the things which shall be written out of the book shall be
of great worth unto the children of men, and especially unto our
seed, which is a remnant of the house of Israel.

2 Nephi 28:3
 3 For it shall come to pass in that day that the churches which
are built up, and not unto the Lord, when the one shall say unto
the other: Behold, I, I am the Lord's; and the others shall say:
I, I am the Lord's; and thus shall every one say that hath built
up churches, and not unto the Lord--

2 Nephi 28:4
 4 And they shall contend one with another; and their priests
shall contend one with another, and they shall teach with their
learning, and deny the Holy Ghost, which giveth utterance.

2 Nephi 28:5
 5 And they deny the power of God, the Holy One of Israel; and
they say unto the people: Hearken unto us, and hear ye our
precept; for behold there is no God today, for the Lord and the
Redeemer hath done his work, and he hath given his power unto
men;

2 Nephi 28:6
 6 Behold, hearken ye unto my precept; if they shall say there is
a miracle wrought by the hand of the Lord, believe it not; for
this day he is not a God of miracles; he hath done his work.

2 Nephi 28:7
 7 Yea, and there shall be many which shall say: Eat, drink, and
be merry, for tomorrow we die; and it shall be well with us.

2 Nephi 28:8
 8 And there shall also be many which shall say: Eat, drink, and
be merry; nevertheless, fear God--he will justify in committing a
little sin; yea, lie a little, take the advantage of one because
of his words, dig a pit for thy neighbor; there is no harm in
this; and do all these things, for tomorrow we die; and if it so
be that we are guilty, God will beat us with a few stripes, and
at last we shall be saved in the kingdom of God.

2 Nephi 28:9
 9 Yea, and there shall be many which shall teach after this
manner, false and vain and foolish doctrines, and shall be puffed
up in their hearts, and shall seek deep to hide their counsels
from the Lord; and their works shall be in the dark.

2 Nephi 28:10
 10 And the blood of the saints shall cry from the ground against
them.

2 Nephi 28:11
 11 Yea, they have all gone out of the way; they have become
corrupted.

2 Nephi 28:12
 12 Because of pride, and because of false teachers, and false
doctrine, their churches have become corrupted, and their
churches are lifted up; because of pride they are puffed up.

2 Nephi 28:13
 13 They rob the poor because of their fine sanctuaries; they rob
the poor because of their fine clothing; and they persecute the
meek and the poor in heart, because in their pride they are
puffed up.

2 Nephi 28:14
 14 They wear stiff necks and high heads; yea, and because of
pride, and wickedness, and abominations, and whoredoms, they have
all gone astray save it be a few, who are the humble followers of
Christ; nevertheless, they are led, that in many instances they
do err because they are taught by the precepts of men.

2 Nephi 28:15
 15 O the wise, and the learned, and the rich, that are puffed up
in the pride of their hearts, and all those who preach false
doctrines, and all those who commit whoredoms, and pervert the
right way of the Lord, wo, wo, wo be unto them, saith the Lord
God Almighty, for they shall be thrust down to hell!

2 Nephi 28:16
 16 Wo unto them that turn aside the just for a thing of naught
and revile against that which is good, and say that is of no
worth!  For the day shall come that the Lord God will speedily
visit the inhabitants of the earth; and in that day that they are
fully ripe in iniquity they shall perish.

2 Nephi 28:17
 17 But behold, if the inhabitants of the earth shall repent of
their wickedness and abominations they shall not be destroyed,
saith the Lord of Hosts.

2 Nephi 28:18
 18 But behold, that great and abominable church, the whore of
all the earth, must tumble to the earth, and great must be the
fall thereof.

2 Nephi 28:19
 19 For the kingdom of the devil must shake, and they which
belong to it must needs be stirred up unto repentance, or the
devil will grasp them with his everlasting chains, and they be
stirred up to anger, and perish;

2 Nephi 28:20
 20 For behold, at that day shall he rage in the hearts of the
children of men, and stir them up to anger against that which is
good.

2 Nephi 28:21
 21 And others will he pacify, and lull them away into carnal
security, that they will say: All is well in Zion; yea, Zion
prospereth, all is well--and thus the devil cheateth their souls,
and leadeth them away carefully down to hell.

2 Nephi 28:22
 22 And behold, others he flattereth away, and telleth them there
is no hell; and he saith unto them: I am no devil, for there is
none--and thus he whispereth in their ears, until he grasps them
with his awful chains, from whence there is no deliverance.

2 Nephi 28:23
 23 Yea, they are grasped with death, and hell; and death, and
hell, and the devil, and all that have been seized therewith must
stand before the throne of God, and be judged according to their
works, from whence they must go into the place prepared for them,
even a lake of fire and brimstone, which is endless torment.

2 Nephi 28:24
 24 Therefore, wo be unto him that is at ease in Zion!

2 Nephi 28:25
 25 Wo be unto him that crieth: All is well!

2 Nephi 28:26
 26 Yea, wo be unto him that hearkeneth unto the precepts of men,
and denieth the power of God, and the gift of the Holy Ghost!

2 Nephi 28:27
 27 Yea, wo be unto him that saith: We have received, and we need
no more!

2 Nephi 28:28
 28 And in fine, wo unto all those who tremble, and are angry
because of the truth of God!  For behold, he that is built upon
the rock receiveth it with gladness; and he that is built upon a
sandy foundation trembleth lest he shall fall.

2 Nephi 28:29
 29 Wo be unto him that shall say: We have received the word of
God, and we need no more of the word of God, for we have enough!



2 Nephi 30
Chapter 30

2 Nephi 30:1
 1 And now behold, my beloved brethren, I would speak unto you;
for I, Nephi, would not suffer that ye should suppose that ye are
more righteous than the Gentiles shall be.  For behold, except ye
shall keep the commandments of God ye shall all likewise perish;
and because of the words which have been spoken ye need not
suppose that the Gentiles are utterly destroyed.

2 Nephi 30:2
 2 For behold, I say unto you that as many of the Gentiles as
will repent are the covenant people of the Lord; and as many of
the Jews as will not repent shall be cast off; for the Lord
covenanteth with none save it be with them that repent and
believe in his Son, who is the Holy One of Israel.

2 Nephi 30:3
 3 And now, I would prophesy somewhat more concerning the Jews
and the Gentiles.  For after the book of which I have spoken
shall come forth, and be written unto the Gentiles, and sealed up
again unto the Lord, there shall be many which shall believe the
words which are written; and they shall carry them forth unto the
remnant of our seed.

2 Nephi 30:4
 4 And then shall the remnant of our seed know concerning us, how
that we came out from Jerusalem, and that they are descendants of
the Jews.

2 Nephi 30:5
 5 And the gospel of Jesus Christ shall be declared among them;
wherefore, they shall be restored unto the knowledge of their
fathers, and also to the knowledge of Jesus Christ, which was had
among their fathers.

2 Nephi 30:6
 6 And then shall they rejoice; for they shall know that it is a
blessing unto them from the hand of God; and their scales of
darkness shall begin to fall from their eyes; and many
generations shall not pass away among them, save they shall be a
pure and delightsome people.

2 Nephi 30:7
 7 And it shall come to pass that the Jews which are scattered
also shall begin to believe in Christ; and they shall begin to
gather in upon the face of the land; and as many as shall believe
in Christ shall also become a delightsome people.

2 Nephi 30:8
 8 And it shall come to pass that the Lord God shall commence his
work among all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, to bring
about the restoration of his people upon the earth.

2 Nephi 30:9
 9 And with righteousness shall the Lord God judge the poor, and
reprove with equity for the meek of the earth.  And he shall
smite the earth with the rod of his mouth; and with the breath of
his lips shall he slay the wicked.

2 Nephi 30:10
 10 For the time speedily cometh that the Lord God shall cause a
great division among the people, and the wicked will he destroy;
and he will spare his people, yea, even if it so be that he must
destroy the wicked by fire.

2 Nephi 30:11
 11 And righteousness shall be the girdle of his loins, and
faithfulness the girdle of his reins.

2 Nephi 30:12
 12 And then shall the wolf dwell with the lamb; and the leopard
shall lie down with the kid, and the calf, and the young lion,
and the fatling, together; and a little child shall lead them.

2 Nephi 30:13
 13 And the cow and the bear shall feed; their young ones shall
lie down together; and the lion shall eat straw like the ox.

2 Nephi 30:14
 14 And the sucking child shall play on the hole of the asp, and
the weaned child shall put his hand on the cockatrice's den.

2 Nephi 30:15
 15 They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain; for
the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the
waters cover the sea.

2 Nephi 30:16
 16 Wherefore, the things of all nations shall be made known;
yea, all things shall be made known unto the children of men.

2 Nephi 30:17
 17 There is nothing which is secret save it shall be revealed;
there is no work of darkness save it shall be made manifest in
the light; and there is nothing which is sealed upon the earth
save it shall be loosed.

2 Nephi 30:18
 18 Wherefore, all things which have been revealed unto the
children of men shall at that day be revealed; and Satan shall
have power over the hearts of the children of men no more, for a
long time.  And now, my beloved brethren, I make an end of my
sayings.


2 Nephi 31
Chapter 31

2 Nephi 31:1
 1 And now I, Nephi, make an end of my prophesying unto you, my
beloved brethren.  And I cannot write but a few things, which I
know must surely come to pass; neither can I write but a few of
the words of my brother Jacob.

2 Nephi 31:2
 2 Wherefore, the things which I have written sufficeth me, save
it be a few words which I must speak concerning the doctrine of
Christ; wherefore, I shall speak unto you plainly, according to
the plainness of my prophesying.

2 Nephi 31:3
 3 For my soul delighteth in plainness; for after this manner
doth the Lord God work among the children of men.  For the Lord
God giveth light unto the understanding; for he speaketh unto men
according to their language, unto their understanding.

2 Nephi 31:4
 4 Wherefore, I would that ye should remember that I have spoken
unto you concerning that prophet which the Lord showed unto me,
that should baptize the Lamb of God, which should take away the
sins of the world.

2 Nephi 31:5
 5 And now, if the Lamb of God, he being holy, should have need
to be baptized by water, to fulfil all righteousness, O then, how
much more need have we, being unholy, to be baptized, yea, even
by water!

2 Nephi 31:6
 6 And now, I would ask of you, my beloved brethren, wherein the
Lamb of God did fulfil all righteousness in being baptized by
water?

2 Nephi 31:7
 7 Know ye not that he was holy?  But notwithstanding he being
holy, he showeth unto the children of men that, according to the
flesh he humbleth himself before the Father, and witnesseth unto
the Father that he would be obedient unto him in keeping his
commandments.

2 Nephi 31:8
 8 Wherefore, after he was baptized with water the Holy Ghost
descended upon him in the form of a dove.

2 Nephi 31:9
 9 And again, it showeth unto the children of men the
straightness of the path, and the narrowness of the gate, by
which they should enter, he having set the example before them.

2 Nephi 31:10
 10 And he said unto the children of men: Follow thou me. 
Wherefore, my beloved brethren, can we follow Jesus save we shall
be willing to keep the commandments of the Father?

2 Nephi 31:11
 11 And the Father said: Repent ye, repent ye, and be baptized in
the name of my Beloved Son.

2 Nephi 31:12
 12 And also, the voice of the Son came unto me, saying: He that
is baptized in my name, to him will the Father give the Holy
Ghost, like unto me; wherefore, follow me, and do the things
which ye have seen me do.

2 Nephi 31:13
 13 Wherefore, my beloved brethren, I know that if ye shall
follow the Son, with full purpose of heart, acting no hypocrisy
and no deception before God, but with real intent, repenting of
your sins, witnessing unto the Father that ye are willing to take
upon you the name of Christ, by baptism--yea, by following your
Lord and your Savior down into the water, according to his word,
behold, then shall ye receive the Holy Ghost; yea, then cometh
the baptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost; and then can ye speak
with the tongue of angels, and shout praises unto the Holy One of
Israel.

2 Nephi 31:14
 14 But, behold, my beloved brethren, thus came the voice of the
Son unto me, saying: After ye have repented of your sins, and
witnessed unto the Father that ye are willing to keep my
commandments, by the baptism of water, and have received the
baptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost, and can speak with a new
tongue, yea, even with the tongue of angels, and after this
should deny me, it would have been better for you that ye had not
known me.

2 Nephi 31:15
 15 And I heard a voice from the Father, saying: Yea, the words
of my Beloved are true and faithful.  He that endureth to the
end, the same shall be saved.

2 Nephi 31:16
 16 And now, my beloved brethren, I know by this that unless a
man shall endure to the end, in following the example of the Son
of the living God, he cannot be saved.

2 Nephi 31:17
 17 Wherefore, do the things which I have told you I have seen
that your Lord and your Redeemer should do; for, for this cause
have they been shown unto me, that ye might know the gate by
which ye should enter.  For the gate by which ye should enter is
repentance and baptism by water; and then cometh a remission of
your sins by fire and by the Holy Ghost.

2 Nephi 31:18
 18 And then are ye in this strait and narrow path which leads to
eternal life; yea, ye have entered in by the gate; ye have done
according to the commandments of the Father and the Son; and ye
have received the Holy Ghost, which witnesses of the Father and
the Son, unto the fulfilling of the promise which he hath made,
that if ye entered in by the way ye should receive.

2 Nephi 31:19
 19 And now, my beloved brethren, after ye have gotten into this
strait and narrow path, I would ask if all is done?  Behold, I
say unto you, Nay; for ye have not come thus far save it were by
the word of Christ with unshaken faith in him, relying wholly
upon the merits of him who is mighty to save.

2 Nephi 31:20
 20 Wherefore, ye must press forward with a steadfastness in
Christ, having a perfect brightness of hope, and a love of God
and of all men.  Wherefore, if ye shall press forward, feasting
upon the word of Christ, and endure to the end, behold, thus
saith the Father: Ye shall have eternal life.

2 Nephi 31:21
 21 And now, behold, my beloved brethren, this is the way; and
there is none other way nor name given under heaven whereby man
can be saved in the kingdom of God.  And now, behold, this is the
doctrine of Christ, and the only and true doctrine of the Father,
and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, which is one God, without
end.  Amen.

2 Nephi 32
Chapter 32

2 Nephi 32:1
 1 And now, behold, my beloved brethren, I suppose that ye ponder
somewhat in your hearts concerning that which ye should do after
ye have entered in by the way.  But, behold, why do ye ponder
these things in your hearts?

2 Nephi 32:2
 2 Do ye not remember that I said unto you that after ye had
received the Holy Ghost ye could speak with the tongue of angels?

And now, how could ye speak with the tongue of angels save it
were by the Holy Ghost?

2 Nephi 32:3
 3 Angels speak by the power of the Holy Ghost; wherefore, they
speak the words of Christ.  Wherefore, I said unto you, feast
upon the words of Christ; for behold, the words of Christ will
tell you all things what ye should do.

2 Nephi 32:4
 4 Wherefore, now after I have spoken these words, if ye cannot
understand them it will be because ye ask not, neither do ye
knock; wherefore, ye are not brought into the light, but must
perish in the dark.

2 Nephi 32:5
 5 For behold, again I say unto you that if ye will enter in by
the way, and receive the Holy Ghost, it will show unto you all
things what ye should do.

2 Nephi 32:6
 6 Behold, this is the doctrine of Christ, and there will be no
more doctrine given until after he shall manifest himself unto
you in the flesh.  And when he shall manifest himself unto you in
the flesh, the things which he shall say unto you shall ye
observe to do.

2 Nephi 32:7
 7 And now I, Nephi, cannot say more; the Spirit stoppeth mine
utterance, and I am left to mourn because of the unbelief, and
the wickedness, and the ignorance, and the stiffneckedness of
men; for they will not search knowledge, nor understand great
knowledge, when it is given unto them in plainness, even as plain
as word can be.

2 Nephi 32:8
 8 And now, my beloved brethren, I perceive that ye ponder still
in your hearts; and it grieveth me that I must speak concerning
this thing.  For if ye would hearken unto the Spirit which
teacheth a man to pray ye would know that ye must pray; for the
evil spirit teacheth not a man to pray, but teacheth him that he
must not pray.

2 Nephi 32:9
 9 But behold, I say unto you that ye must pray always, and not
faint; that ye must not perform any thing unto the Lord save in
the first place ye shall pray unto the Father in the name of
Christ, that he will consecrate thy performance unto thee, that
thy performance may be for the welfare of thy soul.

2 Nephi 33
Chapter 33

2 Nephi 33:1
 1 And now I, Nephi, cannot write all the things which were
taught among my people; neither am I mighty in writing, like unto
speaking; for when a man speaketh by the power of the Holy Ghost
the power of the Holy Ghost carrieth it unto the hearts of the
children of men.

2 Nephi 33:2
 2 But behold, there are many that harden their hearts against
the Holy Spirit, that it hath no place in them; wherefore, they
cast many things away which are written and esteem them as things
of naught.

2 Nephi 33:3
 3 But I, Nephi, have written what I have written, and I esteem
it as of great worth, and especially unto my people.  For I pray
continually for them by day, and mine eyes water my pillow by
night, because of them; and I cry unto my God in faith, and I
know that he will hear my cry.

2 Nephi 33:4
 4 And I know that the Lord God will consecrate my prayers for
the gain of my people.  And the words which I have written in
weakness will be made strong unto them; for it persuadeth them to
do good; it maketh known unto them of their fathers; and it
speaketh of Jesus, and persuadeth them to believe in him, and to
endure to the end, which is life eternal.

2 Nephi 33:5
 5 And it speaketh harshly against sin, according to the
plainness of the truth; wherefore, no man will be angry at the
words which I have written save he shall be of the spirit of the
devil.

2 Nephi 33:6
 6 I glory in plainness; I glory in truth; I glory in my Jesus,
for he hath redeemed my soul from hell.

2 Nephi 33:7
 7 I have charity for my people, and great faith in Christ that I
shall meet many souls spotless at his judgment-seat.

2 Nephi 33:8
 8 I have charity for the Jew--I say Jew, because I mean them
from whence I came.

2 Nephi 33:9
 9 I also have charity for the Gentiles.  But behold, for none of
these can I hope except they shall be reconciled unto Christ, and
enter into the narrow gate, and walk in the strait path which
leads to life, and continue in the path until the end of the day
of probation.

2 Nephi 33:10
 10 And now, my beloved brethren, and also Jew, and all ye ends
of the earth, hearken unto these words and believe in Christ; and
if ye believe not in these words believe in Christ.  And if ye
shall believe in Christ ye will believe in these words, for they
are the words of Christ, and he hath given them unto me; and they
teach all men that they should do good.

2 Nephi 33:11
 11 And if they are not the words of Christ, judge ye--for Christ
will show unto you, with power and great glory, that they are his
words, at the last day; and you and I shall stand face to face
before his bar; and ye shall know that I have been commanded of
him to write these things, notwithstanding my weakness.

2 Nephi 33:12
 12 And I pray the Father in the name of Christ that many of us,
if not all, may be saved in his kingdom at that great and last
day.

2 Nephi 33:13
 13 And now, my beloved brethren, all those who are of the house
of Israel, and all ye ends of the earth, I speak unto you as the
voice of one crying from the dust: Farewell until that great day
shall come.

2 Nephi 33:14
 14 And you that will not partake of the goodness of God, and
respect the words of the Jews, and also my words, and the words
which shall proceed forth out of the mouth of the Lamb of God,
behold, I bid you an everlasting farewell, for these words shall
condemn you at the last day.

2 Nephi 33:15
 15 For what I seal on earth, shall be brought against you at the
judgment bar; for thus hath the Lord commanded me, and I must
obey.  Amen.