Behold, I, Samuel, a Lamanite, do speak
the words of the Lord which he doth put into my heart; and behold
he hath put it into my heart to say unto this people that the
sword of justice hangeth over this people; and four hundred years
pass not away save the sword of justice falleth upon this people.

Helaman 13:6
 6 Yea, heavy destruction awaiteth this people, and it surely
cometh unto this people, and nothing can save this people save it
be repentance and faith on the Lord Jesus Christ, who surely
shall come into the world, and shall suffer many things and shall
be slain for his people.

Helaman 13:7
 7 And behold, an angel of the Lord hath declared it unto me, and
he did bring glad tidings to my soul.  And behold, I was sent
unto you to declare it unto you also, that ye might have glad
tidings; but behold ye would not receive me.

Helaman 13:8
 8 Therefore, thus saith the Lord:


Helaman 13:21
 21 Behold ye, the people of this great city, and hearken unto my
words; yea, hearken unto the words which the Lord saith; for
behold, he saith that ye are cursed because of your riches, and
also are your riches cursed because ye have set your hearts upon
them, and have not hearkened unto the words of him who gave them
unto you.

Helaman 13:22
 22 Ye do not remember the Lord your God in the things with which
he hath blessed you, but ye do always remember your riches, not
to thank the Lord your God for them; yea, your hearts are not
drawn out unto the Lord, but they do swell with great pride, unto
boasting, and unto great swelling, envyings, strifes, malice,
persecutions and murders, and all manner of iniquities.

Helaman 13:23
 23 For this cause hath the Lord God caused that a curse should
come upon the land, and also upon your riches, and this because
of your iniquities.

Helaman 13:24
 24 Yea, wo unto this people, because of this time which has
arrived, that ye do cast out the prophets, and do mock them, and
cast stones at them, and do slay them, and do all manner of
iniquity unto them, even as they did of old time.

Helaman 13:25
 25 And now when ye talk, ye say: If our days had been in the
days of our fathers of old, we would not have slain the prophets;
we would not have stoned them, and cast them out.

Helaman 13:26
 26 Behold ye are worse than they; for as the Lord liveth, if a
prophet come among you and declareth unto you the word of the
Lord, which testifieth of your sins and iniquities, ye are angry
with him, and cast him out and seek all manner of ways to destroy
him; yea, you will say that he is a false prophet, and that he is
a sinner, and of the devil, because he testifieth that your deeds
are evil.

Helaman 13:27
 27 But behold, if a man shall come among you and shall say: Do
this, and there is no iniquity; do that and ye shall not suffer;
yea, he will say: Walk after the pride of your own hearts; yea,
walk after the pride of your eyes, and do whatsoever your heart
desireth--and if a man shall come among you and say this, ye will
receive him, and say that he is a prophet.

Helaman 13:28
 28 Yea, ye will lift him up, and ye will give unto him of your
substance; ye will give unto him of your gold, and of your
silver, and ye will clothe him with costly apparel; and because
he speaketh flattering words unto you, and he saith that all is
well, then ye will not find fault with him.

Helaman 13:29
 29 O ye wicked and ye perverse generation; ye hardened and ye
stiffnecked people, how long will ye suppose that the Lord will
suffer you?  Yea, how long will ye suffer yourselves to be led by
foolish and blind guides?  Yea, how long will ye choose darkness
rather than light?

Helaman 13:30
 30 Yea, behold, the anger of the Lord is already kindled against
you; behold, he hath cursed the land because of your iniquity.

Helaman 13:31
 31 And behold, the time cometh that he curseth your riches, that
they become slippery, that ye cannot hold them; and in the days
of your poverty ye cannot retain them.

Helaman 13:32
 32 And in the days of your poverty ye shall cry unto the Lord;
and in vain shall ye cry, for your desolation is already come
upon you, and your destruction is made sure; and then shall ye
weep and howl in that day, saith the Lord of Hosts.  And then
shall ye lament, and say:

Helaman 13:33
 33 O that I had repented, and had not killed the prophets, and
stoned them, and cast them out.  Yea, in that day ye shall say: O
that we had remembered the Lord our God in the day that he gave
us our riches, and then they would not have become slippery that
we should lose them; for behold, our riches are gone from us.

Helaman 13:34
 34 Behold, we lay a tool here and on the morrow it is gone; and
behold, our swords are taken from us in the day we have sought
them for battle.

Helaman 13:35
 35 Yea, we have hid up our treasures and they have slipped away
from us, because of the curse of the land.

Helaman 13:36
 36 O that we had repented in the day that the word of the Lord
came unto us; for behold the land is cursed, and all things are
become slippery, and we cannot hold them.

Helaman 13:37
 37 Behold, we are surrounded by demons, yea, we are encircled
about by the angels of him who hath sought to destroy our souls. 
Behold, our iniquities are great.  O Lord, canst thou not turn
away thine anger from us?  And this shall be your language in
those days.

Helaman 13:38
 38 But behold, your days of probation are past; ye have
procrastinated the day of your salvation until it is
everlastingly too late, and your destruction is made sure; yea,
for ye have sought all the days of your lives for that which ye
could not obtain; and ye have sought for happiness in doing
iniquity, which thing is contrary to the nature of that
righteousness which is in our great and Eternal Head.

Helaman 13:39
 39 O ye people of the land, that ye would hear my words!  And I
pray that the anger of the Lord be turned away from you, and that
ye would repent and be saved.



Helaman 14
Chapter 14

Helaman 14:1
 1 And now it came to pass that Samuel, the Lamanite, did
prophesy a great many more things which cannot be written.

Helaman 14:2
 2 And behold, he said unto them:

Behold, I give unto you a sign;
for five years more cometh, and behold, then cometh the Son of
God to redeem all those who shall believe on his name.

Helaman 14:3
 3 And behold, this will I give unto you for a sign at the time
of his coming; for behold, there shall be great lights in heaven,
insomuch that in the night before he cometh there shall be no
darkness, insomuch that it shall appear unto man as if it was
day.

Helaman 14:4
 4 Therefore, there shall be one day and a night and a day, as if
it were one day and there were no night; and this shall be unto
you for a sign; for ye shall know of the rising of the sun and
also of its setting; therefore they shall know of a surety that
there shall be two days and a night; nevertheless the night shall
not be darkened; and it shall be the night before he is born.

Helaman 14:5
 5 And behold, there shall a new star arise, such an one as ye
never have beheld; and this also shall be a sign unto you.

Helaman 14:6
 6 And behold this is not all, there shall be many signs and
wonders in heaven.

Helaman 14:7
 7 And it shall come to pass that ye shall all be amazed, and
wonder, insomuch that ye shall fall to the earth.

Helaman 14:8
 8 And it shall come to pass that whosoever shall believe on the
Son of God, the same shall have everlasting life.

Helaman 14:9
 9 And behold, thus hath the Lord commanded me, by his angel,
that I should come and tell this thing unto you; yea, he hath
commanded that I should prophesy these things unto you; yea, he
hath said unto me:


Helaman 14:10
 10 And now, because I am a Lamanite, and have spoken unto you
the words which the Lord hath commanded me, and because it was
hard against you, ye are angry with me and do seek to destroy me,
and have cast me out from among you.

Helaman 14:11
 11 And ye shall hear my words, for, for this intent have I come
up upon the walls of this city, that ye might hear and know of
the judgments of God which do await you because of your
iniquities, and also that ye might know the conditions of
repentance;

Helaman 14:12
 12 And also that ye might know of the coming of Jesus Christ,
the Son of God, the Father of heaven and of earth, the Creator of
all things from the beginning; and that ye might know of the
signs of his coming, to the intent that ye might believe on his
name.

Helaman 14:13
 13 And if ye believe on his name ye will repent of all your
sins, that thereby ye may have a remission of them through his
merits.

Helaman 14:14
 14 And behold, again, another sign I give unto you, yea, a sign
of his death.

Helaman 14:15
 15 For behold, he surely must die that salvation may come; yea,
it behooveth him and becometh expedient that he dieth, to bring
to pass the resurrection of the dead, that thereby men may be
brought into the presence of the Lord.

Helaman 14:16
 16 Yea, behold, this death bringeth to pass the resurrection,
and redeemeth all mankind from the first death--that spiritual
death; for all mankind, by the fall of Adam being cut off from
the presence of the Lord, are considered as dead, both as to
things temporal and to things spiritual.

Helaman 14:17
 17 But behold, the resurrection of Christ redeemeth mankind,
yea, even all mankind, and bringeth them back into the presence
of the Lord.

Helaman 14:18
 18 Yea, and it bringeth to pass the condition of repentance,
that whosoever repenteth the same is not hewn down and cast into
the fire; but whosoever repenteth not is hewn down and cast into
the fire; and there cometh upon them again a spiritual death,
yea, a second death, for they are cut off again as to things
pertaining to righteousness.

Helaman 14:19
 19 Therefore repent ye, repent ye, lest by knowing these things
and not doing them ye shall suffer yourselves to come under
condemnation, and ye are brought down unto this second death.

Helaman 14:20
 20 But behold, as I said unto you concerning another sign, a
sign of his death, behold, in that day that he shall suffer death
the sun shall be darkened and refuse to give his light unto you;
and also the moon and the stars; and there shall be no light upon
the face of this land, even from the time that he shall suffer
death, for the space of three days, to the time that he shall
rise again from the dead.

Helaman 14:21
 21 Yea, at the time that he shall yield up the ghost there shall
be thunderings and lightnings for the space of many hours, and
the earth shall shake and tremble; and the rocks which are upon
the face of this earth, which are both above the earth and
beneath, which ye know at this time are solid, or the more part
of it is one solid mass, shall be broken up;

Helaman 14:22
 22 Yea, they shall be rent in twain, and shall ever after be
found in seams and in cracks, and in broken fragments upon the
face of the whole earth, yea, both above the earth and beneath.

Helaman 14:23
 23 And behold, there shall be great tempests, and there shall be
many mountains laid low, like unto a valley, and there shall be
many places which are now called valleys which shall become
mountains, whose height is great.

Helaman 14:24
 24 And many highways shall be broken up, and many cities shall
become desolate.

Helaman 14:25
 25 And many graves shall be opened, and shall yield up many of
their dead; and many saints shall appear unto many.

Helaman 14:26
 26 And behold, thus hath the angel spoken unto me; for he said
unto me that there should be thunderings and lightnings for the
space of many hours.

Helaman 14:27
 27 And he said unto me that while the thunder and the lightning
lasted, and the tempest, that these things should be, and that
darkness should cover the face of the whole earth for the space
of three days.

Helaman 14:28
 28 And the angel said unto me that many shall see greater things
than these, to the intent that they might believe that these
signs and these wonders should come to pass upon all the face of
this land, to the intent that there should be no cause for
unbelief among the children of men--

Helaman 14:29
 29 And this to the intent that whosoever will believe might be
saved, and that whosoever will not believe, a righteous judgment
might come upon them; and also if they are condemned they bring
upon themselves their own condemnation.

Helaman 14:30
 30 And now remember, remember, my brethren, that whosoever
perisheth, perisheth unto himself; and whosoever doeth iniquity,
doeth it unto himself; for behold, ye are free; ye are permitted
to act for yourselves; for behold, God hath given unto you a
knowledge and he hath made you free.

Helaman 14:31
 31 He hath given unto you that ye might know good from evil, and
he hath given unto you that ye might choose life or death; and ye
can do good and be restored unto that which is good, or have that
which is good restored unto you; or ye can do evil, and have that
which is evil restored unto you.

Helaman 15
Chapter 15

Helaman 15:1
 1 And now, my beloved brethren, behold, I declare unto you that
except ye shall repent your houses shall be left unto you
desolate.

Helaman 15:2
 2 Yea, except ye repent, your women shall have great cause to
mourn in the day that they shall give suck; for ye shall attempt
to flee and there shall be no place for refuge; yea, and wo unto
them which are with child, for they shall be heavy and cannot
flee; therefore, they shall be trodden down and shall be left to
perish.

Helaman 15:3
 3 Yea, wo unto this people who are called the people of Nephi
except they shall repent, when they shall see all these signs and
wonders which shall be showed unto them; for behold, they have
been a chosen people of the Lord; yea, the people of Nephi hath
he loved, and also hath he chastened them; yea, in the days of
their iniquities hath he chastened them because he loveth them.

Helaman 15:4
 4 But behold my brethren, the Lamanites hath he hated because
their deeds have been evil continually, and this because of the
iniquity of the tradition of their fathers.  But behold,
salvation hath come unto them through the preaching of the
Nephites; and for this intent hath the Lord prolonged their days.

Helaman 15:5
 5 And I would that ye should behold that the more part of them
are in the path of their duty, and they do walk circumspectly
before God, and they do observe to keep his commandments and his
statutes and his judgments according to the law of Moses.

Helaman 15:6
 6 Yea, I say unto you, that the more part of them are doing
this, and they are striving with unwearied diligence that they
may bring the remainder of their brethren to the knowledge of the
truth; therefore there are many who do add to their numbers
daily.

Helaman 15:7
 7 And behold, ye do know of yourselves, for ye have witnessed
it, that as many of them as are brought to the knowledge of the
truth, and to know of the wicked and abominable traditions of
their fathers, and are led to believe the holy scriptures, yea,
the prophecies of the holy prophets, which are written, which
leadeth them to faith on the Lord, and unto repentance, which
faith and repentance bringeth a change of heart unto them--

Helaman 15:8
 8 Therefore, as many as have come to this, ye know of yourselves
are firm and steadfast in the faith, and in the thing wherewith
they have been made free.

Helaman 15:9
 9 And ye know also that they have buried their weapons of war,
and they fear to take them up lest by any means they should sin;
yea, ye can see that they fear to sin--for behold they will
suffer themselves that they be trodden down and slain by their
enemies, and will not lift their swords against them, and this
because of their faith in Christ.

Helaman 15:10
 10 And now, because of their steadfastness when they do believe
in that thing which they do believe, for because of their
firmness when they are once enlightened, behold, the Lord shall
bless them and prolong their days, notwithstanding their
iniquity--

Helaman 15:11
 11 Yea, even if they should dwindle in unbelief the Lord shall
prolong their days, until the time shall come which hath been
spoken of by our fathers, and also by the prophet Zenos, and many
other prophets, concerning the restoration of our brethren, the
Lamanites, again to the knowledge of the truth--

Helaman 15:12
 12 Yea, I say unto you, that in the latter times the promises of
the Lord have been extended to our brethren, the Lamanites; and
notwithstanding the many afflictions which they shall have, and
notwithstanding they shall be driven to and fro upon the face of
the earth, and be hunted, and shall be smitten and scattered
abroad, having no place for refuge, the Lord shall be merciful
unto them.

Helaman 15:13
 13 And this is according to the prophecy, that they shall again
be brought to the true knowledge, which is knowledge of their
Redeemer, and their great and true shepherd, and be numbered
among his sheep.

Helaman 15:14
 14 Therefore I say unto you, it shall be better for them than
for you except ye repent.

Helaman 15:15
 15 For behold, had the mighty works been shown unto them which
have been shown unto you, yea, unto them who have dwindled in
unbelief because of the traditions of their fathers, ye can see
of yourselves that they never would again have dwindled in
unbelief.

Helaman 15:16
 16 Therefore, saith the Lord:


Helaman 15:17
 17 And now behold, saith the Lord, 

and as surely as the Lord liveth shall these things
be, saith the Lord.


