Deuteronomy 1:1	These [be] the words which Moses spake unto all Israel on this side Jordan in the wilderness, in the plain over against the Red [sea], between Paran, and Tophel, and Laban, and Hazeroth, and Dizahab.
Deuteronomy 1:2	([There are] eleven days’ [journey] from Horeb by the way of mount Seir unto Kadeshbarnea.)
Deuteronomy 1:3	And it came to pass in the fortieth year, in the eleventh month, on the first [day] of the month, [that] Moses spake unto the children of Israel, according unto all that the LORD had given him in commandment unto them;
Deuteronomy 1:4	After he had slain Sihon the king of the Amorites, which dwelt in Heshbon, and Og the king of Bashan, which dwelt at Astaroth in Edrei:
Deuteronomy 1:5	On this side Jordan, in the land of Moab, began Moses to declare this law, saying,


Deuteronomy 1:9	And I spake unto you at that time, saying, 

Deuteronomy 4:41	Then Moses severed three cities on this side Jordan toward the sunrising;
Deuteronomy 4:42	That the slayer might flee thither, which should kill his neighbour unawares, and hated him not in times past; and that fleeing unto one of these cities he might live:
Deuteronomy 4:43	[Namely], Bezer in the wilderness, in the plain country, of the Reubenites; and Ramoth in Gilead, of the Gadites; and Golan in Bashan, of the Manassites.
Deuteronomy 4:44	And this [is] the law which Moses set before the children of Israel:
Deuteronomy 4:45	These [are] the testimonies, and the statutes, and the judgments, which Moses spake unto the children of Israel, after they came forth out of Egypt,
Deuteronomy 4:46	On this side Jordan, in the valley over against Bethpeor, in the land of Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt at Heshbon, whom Moses and the children of Israel smote, after they were come forth out of Egypt:
Deuteronomy 4:47	And they possessed his land, and the land of Og king of Bashan, two kings of the Amorites, which [were] on this side Jordan toward the sunrising;
Deuteronomy 4:48	From Aroer, which [is] by the bank of the river Arnon, even unto mount Sion, which [is] Hermon,
Deuteronomy 4:49	And all the plain on this side Jordan eastward, even unto the sea of the plain, under the springs of Pisgah.
Deuteronomy 5:1	And Moses called all Israel, and said unto them, 


Deuteronomy 27:11	And Moses charged the people the same day, saying,


Deuteronomy 31:7	And Moses called unto Joshua, and said unto him in the sight of all Israel,

Deuteronomy 31:9	And Moses wrote this law, and delivered it unto the priests the sons of Levi, which bare the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and unto all the elders of Israel.
Deuteronomy 31:10	And Moses commanded them, saying, 

Deuteronomy 31:14	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Deuteronomy 31:15	And the LORD appeared in the tabernacle in a pillar of a cloud: and the pillar of the cloud stood over the door of the tabernacle.
Deuteronomy 31:16	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Deuteronomy 31:22	Moses therefore wrote this song the same day, and taught it the children of Israel.
Deuteronomy 31:23	And he gave Joshua the son of Nun a charge, and said, 

Deuteronomy 31:24	And it came to pass, when Moses had made an end of writing the words of this law in a book, until they were finished,
Deuteronomy 31:25	That Moses commanded the Levites, which bare the ark of the covenant of the LORD, saying,


Deuteronomy 31:30	And Moses spake in the ears of all the congregation of Israel the words of this song, until they were ended.


Deuteronomy 32:44	And Moses came and spake all the words of this song in the ears of the people, he, and Hoshea the son of Nun.
Deuteronomy 32:45	And Moses made an end of speaking all these words to all Israel:
Deuteronomy 32:46	And he said unto them, 

Deuteronomy 32:48	And the LORD spake unto Moses that selfsame day, saying,


Deuteronomy 33:1	And this [is] the blessing, wherewith Moses the man of God blessed the children of Israel before his death.
Deuteronomy 33:2	And he said, 

Deuteronomy 33:4	Moses commanded us a law, [even] the inheritance of the congregation of Jacob.
Deuteronomy 33:5	And he was king in Jeshurun, when the heads of the people [and] the tribes of Israel were gathered together.


Deuteronomy 33:8	And of Levi he said, 

Deuteronomy 33:12	[And] of Benjamin he said, 

Deuteronomy 33:13	And of Joseph he said, 

Deuteronomy 33:18	And of Zebulun he said, 

Deuteronomy 33:22	And of Dan he said, 

Deuteronomy 33:24	And of Asher he said, 

Deuteronomy 34:1	And Moses went up from the plains of Moab unto the mountain of Nebo, to the top of Pisgah, that [is] over against Jericho. And the LORD shewed him all the land of Gilead, unto Dan,
Deuteronomy 34:2	And all Naphtali, and the land of Ephraim, and Manasseh, and all the land of Judah, unto the utmost sea,
Deuteronomy 34:3	And the south, and the plain of the valley of Jericho, the city of palm trees, unto Zoar.
Deuteronomy 34:4	And the LORD said unto him, 

Deuteronomy 34:5	So Moses the servant of the LORD died there in the land of Moab, according to the word of the LORD.
Deuteronomy 34:6	And he buried him in a valley in the land of Moab, over against Bethpeor: but no man knoweth of his sepulchre unto this day.
Deuteronomy 34:7	And Moses [was] an hundred and twenty years old when he died: his eye was not dim, nor his natural force abated.
Deuteronomy 34:8	And the children of Israel wept for Moses in the plains of Moab thirty days: so the days of weeping [and] mourning for Moses were ended.
Deuteronomy 34:9	And Joshua the son of Nun was full of the spirit of wisdom; for Moses had laid his hands upon him: and the children of Israel hearkened unto him, and did as the LORD commanded Moses.
Deuteronomy 34:10	And there arose not a prophet since in Israel like unto Moses, whom the LORD knew face to face,
Deuteronomy 34:11	In all the signs and the wonders, which the LORD sent him to do in the land of Egypt to Pharaoh, and to all his servants, and to all his land,
Deuteronomy 34:12	And in all that mighty hand, and in all the great terror which Moses shewed in the sight of all Israel.
