Exodus 1:1	Now these [are] the names of the children of Israel, which came into Egypt; every man and his household came with Jacob.
Exodus 1:2	Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah,
Exodus 1:3	Issachar, Zebulun, and Benjamin,
Exodus 1:4	Dan, and Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.
Exodus 1:5	And all the souls that came out of the loins of Jacob were seventy souls: for Joseph was in Egypt [already].
Exodus 1:6	And Joseph died, and all his brethren, and all that generation.
Exodus 1:7	And the children of Israel were fruitful, and increased abundantly, and multiplied, and waxed exceeding mighty; and the land was filled with them.
Exodus 1:8	Now there arose up a new king over Egypt, which knew not Joseph.
Exodus 1:9	And he said unto his people, 

Exodus 1:11	Therefore they did set over them taskmasters to afflict them with their burdens. And they built for Pharaoh treasure cities, Pithom and Raamses.
Exodus 1:12	But the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and grew. And they were grieved because of the children of Israel.
Exodus 1:13	And the Egyptians made the children of Israel to serve with rigour:
Exodus 1:14	And they made their lives bitter with hard bondage, in morter, and in brick, and in all manner of service in the field: all their service, wherein they made them serve, [was] with rigour.
Exodus 1:15	And the king of Egypt spake to the Hebrew midwives, of which the name of the one [was] Shiphrah, and the name of the other Puah:
Exodus 1:16	And he said, 

Exodus 1:17	But the midwives feared God, and did not as the king of Egypt commanded them, but saved the men children alive.
Exodus 1:18	And the king of Egypt called for the midwives, and said unto them, 

Exodus 1:19	And the midwives said unto Pharaoh, Because the Hebrew women [are] not as the Egyptian women; for they [are] lively, and are delivered ere the midwives come in unto them.
Exodus 1:20	Therefore God dealt well with the midwives: and the people multiplied, and waxed very mighty.
Exodus 1:21	And it came to pass, because the midwives feared God, that he made them houses.
Exodus 1:22	And Pharaoh charged all his people, saying, 

Exodus 2:1	And there went a man of the house of Levi, and took [to wife] a daughter of Levi.
Exodus 2:2	And the woman conceived, and bare a son: and when she saw him that he [was a] goodly [child], she hid him three months.
Exodus 2:3	And when she could not longer hide him, she took for him an ark of bulrushes, and daubed it with slime and with pitch, and put the child therein; and she laid [it] in the flags by the river’s brink.
Exodus 2:4	And his sister stood afar off, to wit what would be done to him.
Exodus 2:5	And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to wash [herself] at the river; and her maidens walked along by the river’s side; and when she saw the ark among the flags, she sent her maid to fetch it.
Exodus 2:6	And when she had opened [it], she saw the child: and, behold, the babe wept. And she had compassion on him, and said, This [is one] of the Hebrews’ children.
Exodus 2:7	Then said his sister to Pharaoh’s daughter, Shall I go and call to thee a nurse of the Hebrew women, that she may nurse the child for thee?
Exodus 2:8	And Pharaoh’s daughter said to her, Go. And the maid went and called the child’s mother.
Exodus 2:9	And Pharaoh’s daughter said unto her, Take this child away, and nurse it for me, and I will give [thee] thy wages. And the woman took the child, and nursed it.
Exodus 2:10	And the child grew, and she brought him unto Pharaoh’s daughter, and he became her son. And she called his name Moses: and she said, Because I drew him out of the water.
Exodus 2:11	And it came to pass in those days, when Moses was grown, that he went out unto his brethren, and looked on their burdens: and he spied an Egyptian smiting an Hebrew, one of his brethren.
Exodus 2:12	And he looked this way and that way, and when he saw that [there was] no man, he slew the Egyptian, and hid him in the sand.
Exodus 2:13	And when he went out the second day, behold, two men of the Hebrews strove together: and he said to him that did the wrong, Wherefore smitest thou thy fellow?
Exodus 2:14	And he said, Who made thee a prince and a judge over us? intendest thou to kill me, as thou killedst the Egyptian? And Moses feared, and said, 

Exodus 2:15	Now when Pharaoh heard this thing, he sought to slay Moses. But Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh, and dwelt in the land of Midian: and he sat down by a well.
Exodus 2:16	Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters: and they came and drew [water], and filled the troughs to water their father’s flock.
Exodus 2:17	And the shepherds came and drove them away: but Moses stood up and helped them, and watered their flock.
Exodus 2:18	And when they came to Reuel their father, he said, 

Exodus 2:19	And they said, An Egyptian delivered us out of the hand of the shepherds, and also drew [water] enough for us, and watered the flock.
Exodus 2:20	And he said unto his daughters, 

Exodus 2:21	And Moses was content to dwell with the man: and he gave Moses Zipporah his daughter.
Exodus 2:22	And she bare [him] a son, and he called his name Gershom: 

Exodus 2:23	And it came to pass in process of time, that the king of Egypt died: and the children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage, and they cried, and their cry came up unto God by reason of the bondage.
Exodus 2:24	And God heard their groaning, and God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob.
Exodus 2:25	And God looked upon the children of Israel, and God had respect unto [them].
Exodus 3:1	Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro his father in law, the priest of Midian: and he led the flock to the backside of the desert, and came to the mountain of God, [even] to Horeb.
Exodus 3:2	And the angel of the LORD appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush: and he looked, and, behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush [was] not consumed.
Exodus 3:3	And Moses said, 

Exodus 3:4	And when the LORD saw that he turned aside to see, God called unto him out of the midst of the bush, and said, 
And he said, 

Exodus 3:5	And he said, 

Exodus 3:6	Moreover he said, 
 And Moses hid his face; for he was afraid to look upon God.
Exodus 3:7	And the LORD said, 

Exodus 3:11	And Moses said unto God, 

Exodus 3:12	And he said, 

Exodus 3:13	And Moses said unto God, 

Exodus 3:14	And God said unto Moses, 
: and he said, 

Exodus 3:15	And God said moreover unto Moses, 

Exodus 4:1	And Moses answered and said,

Exodus 4:2	And the LORD said unto him, 
And he said, 

Exodus 4:3	And he said, 
 And he cast it on the ground, and it became a serpent; and Moses fled from before it.
Exodus 4:4	And the LORD said unto Moses, 
 And he put forth his hand, and caught it, and it became a rod in his hand:


Exodus 4:6	And the LORD said furthermore unto him, 

Exodus 4:10	And Moses said unto the LORD, 

Exodus 4:11	And the LORD said unto him, 

Exodus 4:13	And he said, 

Exodus 4:14	And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Moses, and he said, 

Exodus 4:18	And Moses went and returned to Jethro his father in law, and said unto him, 
 And Jethro said to Moses, 

Exodus 4:19	And the LORD said unto Moses in Midian, 

Exodus 4:20	And Moses took his wife and his sons, and set them upon an ass, and he returned to the land of Egypt: and Moses took the rod of God in his hand.
Exodus 4:21	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 4:24	And it came to pass by the way in the inn, that the LORD met him, and sought to kill him.
Exodus 4:25	Then Zipporah took a sharp stone, and cut off the foreskin of her son, and cast [it] at his feet, and said, Surely a bloody husband [art] thou to me.
Exodus 4:26	So he let him go: then she said, A bloody husband [thou art], because of the circumcision.
Exodus 4:27	And the LORD said to Aaron, Go into the wilderness to meet Moses. And he went, and met him in the mount of God, and kissed him.
Exodus 4:28	And Moses told Aaron all the words of the LORD who had sent him, and all the signs which he had commanded him.
Exodus 4:29	And Moses and Aaron went and gathered together all the elders of the children of Israel:
Exodus 4:30	And Aaron spake all the words which the LORD had spoken unto Moses, and did the signs in the sight of the people.
Exodus 4:31	And the people believed: and when they heard that the LORD had visited the children of Israel, and that he had looked upon their affliction, then they bowed their heads and worshipped.
Exodus 5:1	And afterward Moses and Aaron went in, and told Pharaoh, 

Exodus 5:2	And Pharaoh said, 

Exodus 5:3	And they said, 

Exodus 5:4	And the king of Egypt said unto them, 

Exodus 5:5	And Pharaoh said, Behold, the people of the land now [are] many, and ye make them rest from their burdens.
Exodus 5:6	And Pharaoh commanded the same day the taskmasters of the people, and their officers, saying,


Exodus 5:10	And the taskmasters of the people went out, and their officers, and they spake to the people, saying, Thus saith Pharaoh, I will not give you straw.
Exodus 5:11	Go ye, get you straw where ye can find it: yet not ought of your work shall be diminished.
Exodus 5:12	So the people were scattered abroad throughout all the land of Egypt to gather stubble instead of straw.
Exodus 5:13	And the taskmasters hasted [them], saying, Fulfil your works, [your] daily tasks, as when there was straw.
Exodus 5:14	And the officers of the children of Israel, which Pharaoh’s taskmasters had set over them, were beaten, [and] demanded, Wherefore have ye not fulfilled your task in making brick both yesterday and to day, as heretofore?
Exodus 5:15	Then the officers of the children of Israel came and cried unto Pharaoh, saying, Wherefore dealest thou thus with thy servants?
Exodus 5:16	There is no straw given unto thy servants, and they say to us, Make brick: and, behold, thy servants [are] beaten; but the fault [is] in thine own people.
Exodus 5:17	But he said, 

Exodus 5:19	And the officers of the children of Israel did see [that] they [were] in evil [case], after it was said, Ye shall not minish [ought] from your bricks of your daily task.
Exodus 5:20	And they met Moses and Aaron, who stood in the way, as they came forth from Pharaoh:
Exodus 5:21	And they said unto them, The LORD look upon you, and judge; because ye have made our savour to be abhorred in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of his servants, to put a sword in their hand to slay us.
Exodus 5:22	And Moses returned unto the LORD, and said, 

Exodus 6:1	Then the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 6:2	And God spake unto Moses, and said unto him, 

Exodus 6:9	And Moses spake so unto the children of Israel: but they hearkened not unto Moses for anguish of spirit, and for cruel bondage.
Exodus 6:10	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Exodus 6:12	And Moses spake before the LORD, saying, 

Exodus 6:13	And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, and gave them a charge unto the children of Israel, and unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt.
Exodus 6:14	These [be] the heads of their fathers’ houses: The sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel; Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi: these [be] the families of Reuben.
Exodus 6:15	And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman: these [are] the families of Simeon.
Exodus 6:16	And these [are] the names of the sons of Levi according to their generations; Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari: and the years of the life of Levi [were] an hundred thirty and seven years.
Exodus 6:17	The sons of Gershon; Libni, and Shimi, according to their families.
Exodus 6:18	And the sons of Kohath; Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel: and the years of the life of Kohath [were] an hundred thirty and three years.
Exodus 6:19	And the sons of Merari; Mahali and Mushi: these [are] the families of Levi according to their generations.
Exodus 6:20	And Amram took him Jochebed his father’s sister to wife; and she bare him Aaron and Moses: and the years of the life of Amram [were] an hundred and thirty and seven years.
Exodus 6:21	And the sons of Izhar; Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri.
Exodus 6:22	And the sons of Uzziel; Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Zithri.
Exodus 6:23	And Aaron took him Elisheba, daughter of Amminadab, sister of Naashon, to wife; and she bare him Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
Exodus 6:24	And the sons of Korah; Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph: these [are] the families of the Korhites.
Exodus 6:25	And Eleazar Aaron’s son took him [one] of the daughters of Putiel to wife; and she bare him Phinehas: these [are] the heads of the fathers of the Levites according to their families.
Exodus 6:26	These [are] that Aaron and Moses, to whom the LORD said, Bring out the children of Israel from the land of Egypt according to their armies.
Exodus 6:27	These [are] they which spake to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring out the children of Israel from Egypt: these [are] that Moses and Aaron.
Exodus 6:28	And it came to pass on the day [when] the LORD spake unto Moses in the land of Egypt,
Exodus 6:29	That the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 

Exodus 6:30	And Moses said before the LORD, 

Exodus 7:1	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 7:6	And Moses and Aaron did as the LORD commanded them, so did they.
Exodus 7:7	And Moses [was] fourscore years old, and Aaron fourscore and three years old, when they spake unto Pharaoh.
Exodus 7:8	And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying,


Exodus 7:10	And Moses and Aaron went in unto Pharaoh, and they did so as the LORD had commanded: and Aaron cast down his rod before Pharaoh, and before his servants, and it became a serpent.
Exodus 7:11	Then Pharaoh also called the wise men and the sorcerers: now the magicians of Egypt, they also did in like manner with their enchantments.
Exodus 7:12	For they cast down every man his rod, and they became serpents: but Aaron’s rod swallowed up their rods.
Exodus 7:13	And he hardened Pharaoh’s heart, that he hearkened not unto them; as the LORD had said.
Exodus 7:14	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 7:19	And the LORD spake unto Moses,

Exodus 7:20	And Moses and Aaron did so, as the LORD commanded; and he lifted up the rod, and smote the waters that [were] in the river, in the sight of Pharaoh, and in the sight of his servants; and all the waters that [were] in the river were turned to blood.
Exodus 7:21	And the fish that [was] in the river died; and the river stank, and the Egyptians could not drink of the water of the river; and there was blood throughout all the land of Egypt.
Exodus 7:22	And the magicians of Egypt did so with their enchantments: and Pharaoh’s heart was hardened, neither did he hearken unto them; as the LORD had said.
Exodus 7:23	And Pharaoh turned and went into his house, neither did he set his heart to this also.
Exodus 7:24	And all the Egyptians digged round about the river for water to drink; for they could not drink of the water of the river.
Exodus 7:25	And seven days were fulfilled, after that the LORD had smitten the river.
Exodus 8:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, 

Exodus 8:5	And the LORD spake unto Moses, Say unto Aaron, 

Exodus 8:6	And Aaron stretched out his hand over the waters of Egypt; and the frogs came up, and covered the land of Egypt.
Exodus 8:7	And the magicians did so with their enchantments, and brought up frogs upon the land of Egypt.
Exodus 8:8	Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron, and said, 

Exodus 8:9	And Moses said unto Pharaoh, 

Exodus 8:10	And he said, 
And he said, 

Exodus 8:12	And Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh: and Moses cried unto the LORD because of the frogs which he had brought against Pharaoh.
Exodus 8:13	And the LORD did according to the word of Moses; and the frogs died out of the houses, out of the villages, and out of the fields.
Exodus 8:14	And they gathered them together upon heaps: and the land stank.
Exodus 8:15	But when Pharaoh saw that there was respite, he hardened his heart, and hearkened not unto them; as the LORD had said.
Exodus 8:16	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 8:17	And they did so; for Aaron stretched out his hand with his rod, and smote the dust of the earth, and it became lice in man, and in beast; all the dust of the land became lice throughout all the land of Egypt.
Exodus 8:18	And the magicians did so with their enchantments to bring forth lice, but they could not: so there were lice upon man, and upon beast.
Exodus 8:19	Then the magicians said unto Pharaoh, This [is] the finger of God: and Pharaoh’s heart was hardened, and he hearkened not unto them; as the LORD had said.
Exodus 8:20	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 8:24	And the LORD did so; and there came a grievous swarm [of flies] into the house of Pharaoh, and [into] his servants’ houses, and into all the land of Egypt: the land was corrupted by reason of the swarm [of flies].
Exodus 8:25	And Pharaoh called for Moses and for Aaron, and said, 

Exodus 8:26	And Moses said, 

Exodus 8:28	And Pharaoh said, 

Exodus 8:29	And Moses said, 

Exodus 8:30	And Moses went out from Pharaoh, and intreated the LORD.
Exodus 8:31	And the LORD did according to the word of Moses; and he removed the swarms [of flies] from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people; there remained not one.
Exodus 8:32	And Pharaoh hardened his heart at this time also, neither would he let the people go.
Exodus 9:1	Then the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 9:5	And the LORD appointed a set time, saying, 

Exodus 9:6	And the LORD did that thing on the morrow, and all the cattle of Egypt died: but of the cattle of the children of Israel died not one.
Exodus 9:7	And Pharaoh sent, and, behold, there was not one of the cattle of the Israelites dead. And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, and he did not let the people go.
Exodus 9:8	And the LORD said unto Moses and unto Aaron, Take to you handfuls of ashes of the furnace, and let Moses sprinkle it toward the heaven in the sight of Pharaoh.
Exodus 9:9	And it shall become small dust in all the land of Egypt, and shall be a boil breaking forth [with] blains upon man, and upon beast, throughout all the land of Egypt.
Exodus 9:10	And they took ashes of the furnace, and stood before Pharaoh; and Moses sprinkled it up toward heaven; and it became a boil breaking forth [with] blains upon man, and upon beast.
Exodus 9:11	And the magicians could not stand before Moses because of the boils; for the boil was upon the magicians, and upon all the Egyptians.
Exodus 9:12	And the LORD hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he hearkened not unto them; as the LORD had spoken unto Moses.
Exodus 9:13	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 9:20	He that feared the word of the LORD among the servants of Pharaoh made his servants and his cattle flee into the houses:
Exodus 9:21	And he that regarded not the word of the LORD left his servants and his cattle in the field.
Exodus 9:22	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 9:23	And Moses stretched forth his rod toward heaven: and the LORD sent thunder and hail, and the fire ran along upon the ground; and the LORD rained hail upon the land of Egypt.
Exodus 9:24	So there was hail, and fire mingled with the hail, very grievous, such as there was none like it in all the land of Egypt since it became a nation.
Exodus 9:25	And the hail smote throughout all the land of Egypt all that [was] in the field, both man and beast; and the hail smote every herb of the field, and brake every tree of the field.
Exodus 9:26	Only in the land of Goshen, where the children of Israel [were], was there no hail.
Exodus 9:27	And Pharaoh sent, and called for Moses and Aaron, and said unto them, 

Exodus 9:29	And Moses said unto him, 

Exodus 9:31	And the flax and the barley was smitten: for the barley [was] in the ear, and the flax [was] bolled.
Exodus 9:32	But the wheat and the rie were not smitten: for they [were] not grown up.
Exodus 9:33	And Moses went out of the city from Pharaoh, and spread abroad his hands unto the LORD: and the thunders and hail ceased, and the rain was not poured upon the earth.
Exodus 9:34	And when Pharaoh saw that the rain and the hail and the thunders were ceased, he sinned yet more, and hardened his heart, he and his servants.
Exodus 9:35	And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, neither would he let the children of Israel go; as the LORD had spoken by Moses.
Exodus 10:1	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 10:3	And Moses and Aaron came in unto Pharaoh, and said unto him, 
 And he turned himself, and went out from Pharaoh.
Exodus 10:7	And Pharaoh’s servants said unto him, How long shall this man be a snare unto us? let the men go, that they may serve the LORD their God: knowest thou not yet that Egypt is destroyed?
Exodus 10:8	And Moses and Aaron were brought again unto Pharaoh: and he said unto them, 

Exodus 10:9	And Moses said, 

Exodus 10:10	And he said unto them, 
 And they were driven out from Pharaoh’s presence.
Exodus 10:12	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 10:13	And Moses stretched forth his rod over the land of Egypt, and the LORD brought an east wind upon the land all that day, and all [that] night; [and] when it was morning, the east wind brought the locusts.
Exodus 10:14	And the locusts went up over all the land of Egypt, and rested in all the coasts of Egypt: very grievous [were they]; before them there were no such locusts as they, neither after them shall be such.
Exodus 10:15	For they covered the face of the whole earth, so that the land was darkened; and they did eat every herb of the land, and all the fruit of the trees which the hail had left: and there remained not any green thing in the trees, or in the herbs of the field, through all the land of Egypt.
Exodus 10:16	Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron in haste; and he said, 

Exodus 10:18	And he went out from Pharaoh, and intreated the LORD.
Exodus 10:19	And the LORD turned a mighty strong west wind, which took away the locusts, and cast them into the Red sea; there remained not one locust in all the coasts of Egypt.
Exodus 10:20	But the LORD hardened Pharaoh’s heart, so that he would not let the children of Israel go.
Exodus 10:21	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 10:22	And Moses stretched forth his hand toward heaven; and there was a thick darkness in all the land of Egypt three days:
Exodus 10:23	They saw not one another, neither rose any from his place for three days: but all the children of Israel had light in their dwellings.
Exodus 10:24	And Pharaoh called unto Moses, and said, 

Exodus 10:25	And Moses said, 

Exodus 10:27	But the LORD hardened Pharaoh’s heart, and he would not let them go.
Exodus 10:28	And Pharaoh said unto him, 

Exodus 10:29	And Moses said, 

Exodus 11:1	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 11:3	And the LORD gave the people favour in the sight of the Egyptians. Moreover the man Moses [was] very great in the land of Egypt, in the sight of Pharaoh’s servants, and in the sight of the people.
Exodus 11:4	And Moses said, 

Exodus 11:9	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 11:10	And Moses and Aaron did all these wonders before Pharaoh: and the LORD hardened Pharaoh’s heart, so that he would not let the children of Israel go out of his land.
Exodus 12:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, saying,


Exodus 12:28	And the children of Israel went away, and did as the LORD had commanded Moses and Aaron, so did they.
Exodus 12:29	And it came to pass, that at midnight the LORD smote all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh that sat on his throne unto the firstborn of the captive that [was] in the dungeon; and all the firstborn of cattle.
Exodus 12:30	And Pharaoh rose up in the night, he, and all his servants, and all the Egyptians; and there was a great cry in Egypt; for [there was] not a house where [there was] not one dead.
Exodus 12:31	And he called for Moses and Aaron by night, and said, 

Exodus 12:33	And the Egyptians were urgent upon the people, that they might send them out of the land in haste; for they said, We [be] all dead [men].
Exodus 12:34	And the people took their dough before it was leavened, their kneadingtroughs being bound up in their clothes upon their shoulders.
Exodus 12:35	And the children of Israel did according to the word of Moses; and they borrowed of the Egyptians jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and raiment:
Exodus 12:36	And the LORD gave the people favour in the sight of the Egyptians, so that they lent unto them [such things as they required]. And they spoiled the Egyptians.
Exodus 12:37	And the children of Israel journeyed from Rameses to Succoth, about six hundred thousand on foot [that were] men, beside children.
Exodus 12:38	And a mixed multitude went up also with them; and flocks, and herds, [even] very much cattle.
Exodus 12:39	And they baked unleavened cakes of the dough which they brought forth out of Egypt, for it was not leavened; because they were thrust out of Egypt, and could not tarry, neither had they prepared for themselves any victual.
Exodus 12:40	Now the sojourning of the children of Israel, who dwelt in Egypt, [was] four hundred and thirty years.
Exodus 12:41	And it came to pass at the end of the four hundred and thirty years, even the selfsame day it came to pass, that all the hosts of the LORD went out from the land of Egypt.
Exodus 12:42	It [is] a night to be much observed unto the LORD for bringing them out from the land of Egypt: this [is] that night of the LORD to be observed of all the children of Israel in their generations.
Exodus 12:43	And the LORD said unto Moses and Aaron, 

Exodus 12:50	Thus did all the children of Israel; as the LORD commanded Moses and Aaron, so did they.
Exodus 12:51	And it came to pass the selfsame day, [that] the LORD did bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt by their armies.
Exodus 13:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Exodus 13:3	And Moses said unto the people, 

Exodus 13:17	And it came to pass, when Pharaoh had let the people go, that God led them not [through] the way of the land of the Philistines, although that [was] near; for God said, 

Exodus 13:18	But God led the people about, [through] the way of the wilderness of the Red sea: and the children of Israel went up harnessed out of the land of Egypt.
Exodus 13:19	And Moses took the bones of Joseph with him: for he had straitly sworn the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you; and ye shall carry up my bones away hence with you.
Exodus 13:20	And they took their journey from Succoth, and encamped in Etham, in the edge of the wilderness.
Exodus 13:21	And the LORD went before them by day in a pillar of a cloud, to lead them the way; and by night in a pillar of fire, to give them light; to go by day and night:
Exodus 13:22	He took not away the pillar of the cloud by day, nor the pillar of fire by night, [from] before the people.
Exodus 14:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

 And they did so.
Exodus 14:5	And it was told the king of Egypt that the people fled: and the heart of Pharaoh and of his servants was turned against the people, and they said, Why have we done this, that we have let Israel go from serving us?
Exodus 14:6	And he made ready his chariot, and took his people with him:
Exodus 14:7	And he took six hundred chosen chariots, and all the chariots of Egypt, and captains over every one of them.
Exodus 14:8	And the LORD hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and he pursued after the children of Israel: and the children of Israel went out with an high hand.
Exodus 14:9	But the Egyptians pursued after them, all the horses [and] chariots of Pharaoh, and his horsemen, and his army, and overtook them encamping by the sea, beside Pihahiroth, before Baalzephon.
Exodus 14:10	And when Pharaoh drew nigh, the children of Israel lifted up their eyes, and, behold, the Egyptians marched after them; and they were sore afraid: and the children of Israel cried out unto the LORD.
Exodus 14:11	And they said unto Moses, Because [there were] no graves in Egypt, hast thou taken us away to die in the wilderness? wherefore hast thou dealt thus with us, to carry us forth out of Egypt?
Exodus 14:12	[Is] not this the word that we did tell thee in Egypt, saying, Let us alone, that we may serve the Egyptians? For [it had been] better for us to serve the Egyptians, than that we should die in the wilderness.
Exodus 14:13	And Moses said unto the people, 

Exodus 14:15	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 14:19	And the angel of God, which went before the camp of Israel, removed and went behind them; and the pillar of the cloud went from before their face, and stood behind them:
Exodus 14:20	And it came between the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel; and it was a cloud and darkness [to them], but it gave light by night [to these]: so that the one came not near the other all the night.
Exodus 14:21	And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea; and the LORD caused the sea to go [back] by a strong east wind all that night, and made the sea dry [land], and the waters were divided.
Exodus 14:22	And the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea upon the dry [ground]: and the waters [were] a wall unto them on their right hand, and on their left.
Exodus 14:23	And the Egyptians pursued, and went in after them to the midst of the sea, [even] all Pharaoh’s horses, his chariots, and his horsemen.
Exodus 14:24	And it came to pass, that in the morning watch the LORD looked unto the host of the Egyptians through the pillar of fire and of the cloud, and troubled the host of the Egyptians,
Exodus 14:25	And took off their chariot wheels, that they drave them heavily: so that the Egyptians said, Let us flee from the face of Israel; for the LORD fighteth for them against the Egyptians.
Exodus 14:26	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 14:27	And Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea, and the sea returned to his strength when the morning appeared; and the Egyptians fled against it; and the LORD overthrew the Egyptians in the midst of the sea.
Exodus 14:28	And the waters returned, and covered the chariots, and the horsemen, [and] all the host of Pharaoh that came into the sea after them; there remained not so much as one of them.
Exodus 14:29	But the children of Israel walked upon dry [land] in the midst of the sea; and the waters [were] a wall unto them on their right hand, and on their left.
Exodus 14:30	Thus the LORD saved Israel that day out of the hand of the Egyptians; and Israel saw the Egyptians dead upon the sea shore.
Exodus 14:31	And Israel saw that great work which the LORD did upon the Egyptians: and the people feared the LORD, and believed the LORD, and his servant Moses.
Exodus 15:1	Then sang Moses and the children of Israel this song unto the LORD, and spake, saying, 

Exodus 15:20	And Miriam the prophetess, the sister of Aaron, took a timbrel in her hand; and all the women went out after her with timbrels and with dances.
Exodus 15:21	And Miriam answered them, Sing ye to the LORD, for he hath triumphed gloriously; the horse and his rider hath he thrown into the sea.
Exodus 15:22	So Moses brought Israel from the Red sea, and they went out into the wilderness of Shur; and they went three days in the wilderness, and found no water.
Exodus 15:23	And when they came to Marah, they could not drink of the waters of Marah, for they [were] bitter: therefore the name of it was called Marah.
Exodus 15:24	And the people murmured against Moses, saying, What shall we drink?
Exodus 15:25	And he cried unto the LORD; and the LORD shewed him a tree, [which] when he had cast into the waters, the waters were made sweet: there he made for them a statute and an ordinance, and there he proved them,
Exodus 15:26	And said, 

Exodus 15:27	And they came to Elim, where [were] twelve wells of water, and threescore and ten palm trees: and they encamped there by the waters.
Exodus 16:1	And they took their journey from Elim, and all the congregation of the children of Israel came unto the wilderness of Sin, which [is] between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after their departing out of the land of Egypt.
Exodus 16:2	And the whole congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness:
Exodus 16:3	And the children of Israel said unto them, Would to God we had died by the hand of the LORD in the land of Egypt, when we sat by the flesh pots, [and] when we did eat bread to the full; for ye have brought us forth into this wilderness, to kill this whole assembly with hunger.
Exodus 16:4	Then said the LORD unto Moses, 

Exodus 16:5	And it shall come to pass, that on the sixth day they shall prepare [that] which they bring in; and it shall be twice as much as they gather daily.
Exodus 16:6	And Moses and Aaron said unto all the children of Israel, 

Exodus 16:8	And Moses said, 

Exodus 16:9	And Moses spake unto Aaron, 

Exodus 16:10	And it came to pass, as Aaron spake unto the whole congregation of the children of Israel, that they looked toward the wilderness, and, behold, the glory of the LORD appeared in the cloud.
Exodus 16:11	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Exodus 16:13	And it came to pass, that at even the quails came up, and covered the camp: and in the morning the dew lay round about the host.
Exodus 16:14	And when the dew that lay was gone up, behold, upon the face of the wilderness [there lay] a small round thing, [as] small as the hoar frost on the ground.
Exodus 16:15	And when the children of Israel saw [it], they said one to another, It [is] manna: for they wist not what it [was]. And Moses said unto them, 

Exodus 16:17	And the children of Israel did so, and gathered, some more, some less.
Exodus 16:18	And when they did mete [it] with an omer, he that gathered much had nothing over, and he that gathered little had no lack; they gathered every man according to his eating.
Exodus 16:19	And Moses said, 

Exodus 16:20	Notwithstanding they hearkened not unto Moses; but some of them left of it until the morning, and it bred worms, and stank: and Moses was wroth with them.
Exodus 16:21	And they gathered it every morning, every man according to his eating: and when the sun waxed hot, it melted.
Exodus 16:22	And it came to pass, [that] on the sixth day they gathered twice as much bread, two omers for one [man]: and all the rulers of the congregation came and told Moses.
Exodus 16:23	And he said unto them, 

Exodus 16:24	And they laid it up till the morning, as Moses bade: and it did not stink, neither was there any worm therein.
Exodus 16:25	And Moses said, 

Exodus 16:27	And it came to pass, [that] there went out [some] of the people on the seventh day for to gather, and they found none.
Exodus 16:28	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 16:30	So the people rested on the seventh day.
Exodus 16:31	And the house of Israel called the name thereof Manna: and it [was] like coriander seed, white; and the taste of it [was] like wafers [made] with honey.
Exodus 16:32	And Moses said, 

Exodus 16:33	And Moses said unto Aaron, 

Exodus 16:34	As the LORD commanded Moses, so Aaron laid it up before the Testimony, to be kept.
Exodus 16:35	And the children of Israel did eat manna forty years, until they came to a land inhabited; they did eat manna, until they came unto the borders of the land of Canaan.
Exodus 16:36	Now an omer [is] the tenth [part] of an ephah.
Exodus 17:1	And all the congregation of the children of Israel journeyed from the wilderness of Sin, after their journeys, according to the commandment of the LORD, and pitched in Rephidim: and [there was] no water for the people to drink.
Exodus 17:2	Wherefore the people did chide with Moses, and said, Give us water that we may drink. And Moses said unto them, Why chide ye with me? wherefore do ye tempt the LORD?
Exodus 17:3	And the people thirsted there for water; and the people murmured against Moses, and said, Wherefore [is] this [that] thou hast brought us up out of Egypt, to kill us and our children and our cattle with thirst?
Exodus 17:4	And Moses cried unto the LORD, saying, 

Exodus 17:5	And the LORD said unto Moses, 
 And Moses did so in the sight of the elders of Israel.
Exodus 17:7	And he called the name of the place Massah, and Meribah, because of the chiding of the children of Israel, and because they tempted the LORD, saying, Is the LORD among us, or not?
Exodus 17:8	Then came Amalek, and fought with Israel in Rephidim.
Exodus 17:9	And Moses said unto Joshua, 

Exodus 17:10	So Joshua did as Moses had said to him, and fought with Amalek: and Moses, Aaron, and Hur went up to the top of the hill.
Exodus 17:11	And it came to pass, when Moses held up his hand, that Israel prevailed: and when he let down his hand, Amalek prevailed.
Exodus 17:12	But Moses’ hands [were] heavy; and they took a stone, and put [it] under him, and he sat thereon; and Aaron and Hur stayed up his hands, the one on the one side, and the other on the other side; and his hands were steady until the going down of the sun.
Exodus 17:13	And Joshua discomfited Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword.
Exodus 17:14	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 17:15	And Moses built an altar, and called the name of it Jehovahnissi:
Exodus 17:16	For he said, Because the LORD hath sworn [that] the LORD [will have] war with Amalek from generation to generation.
Exodus 18:1	When Jethro, the priest of Midian, Moses’ father in law, heard of all that God had done for Moses, and for Israel his people, [and] that the LORD had brought Israel out of Egypt;
Exodus 18:2	Then Jethro, Moses’ father in law, took Zipporah, Moses’ wife, after he had sent her back,
Exodus 18:3	And her two sons; of which the name of the one [was] Gershom; for he said, I have been an alien in a strange land:
Exodus 18:4	And the name of the other [was] Eliezer; for the God of my father, [said he, was] mine help, and delivered me from the sword of Pharaoh:
Exodus 18:5	And Jethro, Moses’ father in law, came with his sons and his wife unto Moses into the wilderness, where he encamped at the mount of God:
Exodus 18:6	And he said unto Moses, 

Exodus 18:7	And Moses went out to meet his father in law, and did obeisance, and kissed him; and they asked each other of [their] welfare; and they came into the tent.
Exodus 18:8	And Moses told his father in law all that the LORD had done unto Pharaoh and to the Egyptians for Israel’s sake, [and] all the travail that had come upon them by the way, and [how] the LORD delivered them.
Exodus 18:9	And Jethro rejoiced for all the goodness which the LORD had done to Israel, whom he had delivered out of the hand of the Egyptians.
Exodus 18:10	And Jethro said, 

Exodus 18:12	And Jethro, Moses’ father in law, took a burnt offering and sacrifices for God: and Aaron came, and all the elders of Israel, to eat bread with Moses’ father in law before God.
Exodus 18:13	And it came to pass on the morrow, that Moses sat to judge the people: and the people stood by Moses from the morning unto the evening.
Exodus 18:14	And when Moses’ father in law saw all that he did to the people, he said, 

Exodus 18:15	And Moses said unto his father in law, 

Exodus 18:17	And Moses’ father in law said unto him, 

Exodus 18:24	So Moses hearkened to the voice of his father in law, and did all that he had said.
Exodus 18:25	And Moses chose able men out of all Israel, and made them heads over the people, rulers of thousands, rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens.
Exodus 18:26	And they judged the people at all seasons: the hard causes they brought unto Moses, but every small matter they judged themselves.
Exodus 18:27	And Moses let his father in law depart; and he went his way into his own land.
Exodus 19:1	In the third month, when the children of Israel were gone forth out of the land of Egypt, the same day came they [into] the wilderness of Sinai.
Exodus 19:2	For they were departed from Rephidim, and were come [to] the desert of Sinai, and had pitched in the wilderness; and there Israel camped before the mount.
Exodus 19:3	And Moses went up unto God, and the LORD called unto him out of the mountain, saying, 

Exodus 19:7	And Moses came and called for the elders of the people, and laid before their faces all these words which the LORD commanded him.
Exodus 19:8	And all the people answered together, and said, All that the LORD hath spoken we will do. And Moses returned the words of the people unto the LORD.
Exodus 19:9	And the LORD said unto Moses, 
 And Moses told the words of the people unto the LORD.
Exodus 19:10	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 19:14	And Moses went down from the mount unto the people, and sanctified the people; and they washed their clothes.
Exodus 19:15	And he said unto the people, 

Exodus 19:16	And it came to pass on the third day in the morning, that there were thunders and lightnings, and a thick cloud upon the mount, and the voice of the trumpet exceeding loud; so that all the people that [was] in the camp trembled.
Exodus 19:17	And Moses brought forth the people out of the camp to meet with God; and they stood at the nether part of the mount.
Exodus 19:18	And mount Sinai was altogether on a smoke, because the LORD descended upon it in fire: and the smoke thereof ascended as the smoke of a furnace, and the whole mount quaked greatly.
Exodus 19:19	And when the voice of the trumpet sounded long, and waxed louder and louder, Moses spake, and God answered him by a voice.
Exodus 19:20	And the LORD came down upon mount Sinai, on the top of the mount: and the LORD called Moses [up] to the top of the mount; and Moses went up.
Exodus 19:21	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 19:23	And Moses said unto the LORD, 

Exodus 19:24	And the LORD said unto him, 

Exodus 19:25	So Moses went down unto the people, and spake unto them.
Exodus 20:1	And God spake all these words, saying,


Exodus 24:1	And he said unto Moses, 

Exodus 24:3	And Moses came and told the people all the words of the LORD, and all the judgments: and all the people answered with one voice, and said, All the words which the LORD hath said will we do.
Exodus 24:4	And Moses wrote all the words of the LORD, and rose up early in the morning, and builded an altar under the hill, and twelve pillars, according to the twelve tribes of Israel.
Exodus 24:5	And he sent young men of the children of Israel, which offered burnt offerings, and sacrificed peace offerings of oxen unto the LORD.
Exodus 24:6	And Moses took half of the blood, and put [it] in basons; and half of the blood he sprinkled on the altar.
Exodus 24:7	And he took the book of the covenant, and read in the audience of the people: and they said, All that the LORD hath said will we do, and be obedient.
Exodus 24:8	And Moses took the blood, and sprinkled [it] on the people, and said, 

Exodus 24:9	Then went up Moses, and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel:
Exodus 24:10	And they saw the God of Israel: and [there was] under his feet as it were a paved work of a sapphire stone, and as it were the body of heaven in [his] clearness.
Exodus 24:11	And upon the nobles of the children of Israel he laid not his hand: also they saw God, and did eat and drink.
Exodus 24:12	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 24:13	And Moses rose up, and his minister Joshua: and Moses went up into the mount of God.
Exodus 24:14	And he said unto the elders, 

Exodus 24:15	And Moses went up into the mount, and a cloud covered the mount.
Exodus 24:16	And the glory of the LORD abode upon mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it six days: and the seventh day he called unto Moses out of the midst of the cloud.
Exodus 24:17	And the sight of the glory of the LORD [was] like devouring fire on the top of the mount in the eyes of the children of Israel.
Exodus 24:18	And Moses went into the midst of the cloud, and gat him up into the mount: and Moses was in the mount forty days and forty nights.
Exodus 25:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

Exodus 30:17	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Exodus 31:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Exodus 31:18	And he gave unto Moses, when he had made an end of communing with him upon mount Sinai, two tables of testimony, tables of stone, written with the finger of God.
Exodus 32:1	And when the people saw that Moses delayed to come down out of the mount, the people gathered themselves together unto Aaron, and said unto him, Up, make us gods, which shall go before us; for [as for] this Moses, the man that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we wot not what is become of him.
Exodus 32:2	And Aaron said unto them, Break off the golden earrings, which [are] in the ears of your wives, of your sons, and of your daughters, and bring [them] unto me.
Exodus 32:3	And all the people brake off the golden earrings which [were] in their ears, and brought [them] unto Aaron.
Exodus 32:4	And he received [them] at their hand, and fashioned it with a graving tool, after he had made it a molten calf: and they said, These [be] thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt.
Exodus 32:5	And when Aaron saw [it], he built an altar before it; and Aaron made proclamation, and said, To morrow [is] a feast to the LORD.
Exodus 32:6	And they rose up early on the morrow, and offered burnt offerings, and brought peace offerings; and the people sat down to eat and to drink, and rose up to play.
Exodus 32:7	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 32:9	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 32:11	And Moses besought the LORD his God, and said, 

Exodus 32:14	And the LORD repented of the evil which he thought to do unto his people.
Exodus 32:15	And Moses turned, and went down from the mount, and the two tables of the testimony [were] in his hand: the tables [were] written on both their sides; on the one side and on the other [were] they written.
Exodus 32:16	And the tables [were] the work of God, and the writing [was] the writing of God, graven upon the tables.
Exodus 32:17	And when Joshua heard the noise of the people as they shouted, he said unto Moses, [There is] a noise of war in the camp.
Exodus 32:18	And he said, [It is] not the voice of [them that] shout for mastery, neither [is it] the voice of [them that] cry for being overcome: [but] the noise of [them that] sing do I hear.
Exodus 32:19	And it came to pass, as soon as he came nigh unto the camp, that he saw the calf, and the dancing: and Moses’ anger waxed hot, and he cast the tables out of his hands, and brake them beneath the mount.
Exodus 32:20	And he took the calf which they had made, and burnt [it] in the fire, and ground [it] to powder, and strawed [it] upon the water, and made the children of Israel drink [of it].
Exodus 32:21	And Moses said unto Aaron,

Exodus 32:22	And Aaron said, 

Exodus 32:25	And when Moses saw that the people [were] naked; (for Aaron had made them naked unto [their] shame among their enemies:)
Exodus 32:26	Then Moses stood in the gate of the camp, and said, 
 And all the sons of Levi gathered themselves together unto him.
Exodus 32:27	And he said unto them, 

Exodus 32:28	And the children of Levi did according to the word of Moses: and there fell of the people that day about three thousand men.
Exodus 32:29	For Moses had said, 

Exodus 32:30	And it came to pass on the morrow, that Moses said unto the people, 

Exodus 32:31	And Moses returned unto the LORD, and said, 

Exodus 32:33	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 32:35	And the LORD plagued the people, because they made the calf, which Aaron made.
Exodus 33:1	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Exodus 33:4	And when the people heard these evil tidings, they mourned: and no man did put on him his ornaments.
Exodus 33:5	For the LORD had said unto Moses, 

Exodus 33:6	And the children of Israel stripped themselves of their ornaments by the mount Horeb.
Exodus 33:7	And Moses took the tabernacle, and pitched it without the camp, afar off from the camp, and called it the Tabernacle of the congregation. And it came to pass, [that] every one which sought the LORD went out unto the tabernacle of the congregation, which [was] without the camp.
Exodus 33:8	And it came to pass, when Moses went out unto the tabernacle, [that] all the people rose up, and stood every man [at] his tent door, and looked after Moses, until he was gone into the tabernacle.
Exodus 33:9	And it came to pass, as Moses entered into the tabernacle, the cloudy pillar descended, and stood [at] the door of the tabernacle, and [the LORD] talked with Moses.
Exodus 33:10	And all the people saw the cloudy pillar stand [at] the tabernacle door: and all the people rose up and worshipped, every man [in] his tent door.
Exodus 33:11	And the LORD spake unto Moses face to face, as a man speaketh unto his friend. And he turned again into the camp: but his servant Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, departed not out of the tabernacle.
Exodus 33:12	And Moses said unto the LORD, 

Exodus 33:14	And he said, 

Exodus 33:15	And he said unto him, 

Exodus 33:17	And the LORD said unto Moses,

Exodus 33:18	And he said, 

Exodus 33:19	And he said, I will make all my goodness pass before thee, and I will proclaim the name of the LORD before thee; and will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and will shew mercy on whom I will shew mercy.
Exodus 33:20	And he said, Thou canst not see my face: for there shall no man see me, and live.
Exodus 33:21	And the LORD said, Behold, [there is] a place by me, and thou shalt stand upon a rock:
Exodus 33:22	And it shall come to pass, while my glory passeth by, that I will put thee in a clift of the rock, and will cover thee with my hand while I pass by:
Exodus 33:23	And I will take away mine hand, and thou shalt see my back parts: but my face shall not be seen.
Exodus 34:1	And the LORD said unto Moses, Hew thee two tables of stone like unto the first: and I will write upon [these] tables the words that were in the first tables, which thou brakest.
Exodus 34:2	And be ready in the morning, and come up in the morning unto mount Sinai, and present thyself there to me in the top of the mount.
Exodus 34:3	And no man shall come up with thee, neither let any man be seen throughout all the mount; neither let the flocks nor herds feed before that mount.
Exodus 34:4	And he hewed two tables of stone like unto the first; and Moses rose up early in the morning, and went up unto mount Sinai, as the LORD had commanded him, and took in his hand the two tables of stone.
Exodus 34:5	And the LORD descended in the cloud, and stood with him there, and proclaimed the name of the LORD.
Exodus 34:6	And the LORD passed by before him, and proclaimed, The LORD, The LORD God, merciful and gracious, longsuffering, and abundant in goodness and truth,
Exodus 34:7	Keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, and that will by no means clear [the guilty]; visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, and upon the children’s children, unto the third and to the fourth [generation].
Exodus 34:8	And Moses made haste, and bowed his head toward the earth, and worshipped.
Exodus 34:9	And he said, If now I have found grace in thy sight, O Lord, let my Lord, I pray thee, go among us; for it [is] a stiffnecked people; and pardon our iniquity and our sin, and take us for thine inheritance.
Exodus 34:10	And he said, Behold, I make a covenant: before all thy people I will do marvels, such as have not been done in all the earth, nor in any nation: and all the people among which thou [art] shall see the work of the LORD: for it [is] a terrible thing that I will do with thee.
Exodus 34:11	Observe thou that which I command thee this day: behold, I drive out before thee the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
Exodus 34:12	Take heed to thyself, lest thou make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land whither thou goest, lest it be for a snare in the midst of thee:
Exodus 34:13	But ye shall destroy their altars, break their images, and cut down their groves:
Exodus 34:14	For thou shalt worship no other god: for the LORD, whose name [is] Jealous, [is] a jealous God:
Exodus 34:15	Lest thou make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, and they go a whoring after their gods, and do sacrifice unto their gods, and [one] call thee, and thou eat of his sacrifice;
Exodus 34:16	And thou take of their daughters unto thy sons, and their daughters go a whoring after their gods, and make thy sons go a whoring after their gods.
Exodus 34:17	Thou shalt make thee no molten gods.
Exodus 34:18	The feast of unleavened bread shalt thou keep. Seven days thou shalt eat unleavened bread, as I commanded thee, in the time of the month Abib: for in the month Abib thou camest out from Egypt.
Exodus 34:19	All that openeth the matrix [is] mine; and every firstling among thy cattle, [whether] ox or sheep, [that is male].
Exodus 34:20	But the firstling of an ass thou shalt redeem with a lamb: and if thou redeem [him] not, then shalt thou break his neck. All the firstborn of thy sons thou shalt redeem. And none shall appear before me empty.
Exodus 34:21	Six days thou shalt work, but on the seventh day thou shalt rest: in earing time and in harvest thou shalt rest.
Exodus 34:22	And thou shalt observe the feast of weeks, of the firstfruits of wheat harvest, and the feast of ingathering at the year’s end.
Exodus 34:23	Thrice in the year shall all your men children appear before the Lord GOD, the God of Israel.
Exodus 34:24	For I will cast out the nations before thee, and enlarge thy borders: neither shall any man desire thy land, when thou shalt go up to appear before the LORD thy God thrice in the year.
Exodus 34:25	Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leaven; neither shall the sacrifice of the feast of the passover be left unto the morning.
Exodus 34:26	The first of the firstfruits of thy land thou shalt bring unto the house of the LORD thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in his mother’s milk.
Exodus 34:27	And the LORD said unto Moses, Write thou these words: for after the tenor of these words I have made a covenant with thee and with Israel.
Exodus 34:28	And he was there with the LORD forty days and forty nights; he did neither eat bread, nor drink water. And he wrote upon the tables the words of the covenant, the ten commandments.
Exodus 34:29	And it came to pass, when Moses came down from mount Sinai with the two tables of testimony in Moses’ hand, when he came down from the mount, that Moses wist not that the skin of his face shone while he talked with him.
Exodus 34:30	And when Aaron and all the children of Israel saw Moses, behold, the skin of his face shone; and they were afraid to come nigh him.
Exodus 34:31	And Moses called unto them; and Aaron and all the rulers of the congregation returned unto him: and Moses talked with them.
Exodus 34:32	And afterward all the children of Israel came nigh: and he gave them in commandment all that the LORD had spoken with him in mount Sinai.
Exodus 34:33	And [till] Moses had done speaking with them, he put a vail on his face.
Exodus 34:34	But when Moses went in before the LORD to speak with him, he took the vail off, until he came out. And he came out, and spake unto the children of Israel [that] which he was commanded.
Exodus 34:35	And the children of Israel saw the face of Moses, that the skin of Moses’ face shone: and Moses put the vail upon his face again, until he went in to speak with him.
Exodus 35:1	And Moses gathered all the congregation of the children of Israel together, and said unto them, These [are] the words which the LORD hath commanded, that [ye] should do them.
Exodus 35:2	Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day there shall be to you an holy day, a sabbath of rest to the LORD: whosoever doeth work therein shall be put to death.
Exodus 35:3	Ye shall kindle no fire throughout your habitations upon the sabbath day.
Exodus 35:4	And Moses spake unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, saying, This [is] the thing which the LORD commanded, saying,
Exodus 35:5	Take ye from among you an offering unto the LORD: whosoever [is] of a willing heart, let him bring it, an offering of the LORD; gold, and silver, and brass,
Exodus 35:6	And blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen, and goats’ [hair],
Exodus 35:7	And rams’ skins dyed red, and badgers’ skins, and shittim wood,
Exodus 35:8	And oil for the light, and spices for anointing oil, and for the sweet incense,
Exodus 35:9	And onyx stones, and stones to be set for the ephod, and for the breastplate.
Exodus 35:10	And every wise hearted among you shall come, and make all that the LORD hath commanded;
Exodus 35:11	The tabernacle, his tent, and his covering, his taches, and his boards, his bars, his pillars, and his sockets,
Exodus 35:12	The ark, and the staves thereof, [with] the mercy seat, and the vail of the covering,
Exodus 35:13	The table, and his staves, and all his vessels, and the shewbread,
Exodus 35:14	The candlestick also for the light, and his furniture, and his lamps, with the oil for the light,
Exodus 35:15	And the incense altar, and his staves, and the anointing oil, and the sweet incense, and the hanging for the door at the entering in of the tabernacle,
Exodus 35:16	The altar of burnt offering, with his brasen grate, his staves, and all his vessels, the laver and his foot,
Exodus 35:17	The hangings of the court, his pillars, and their sockets, and the hanging for the door of the court,
Exodus 35:18	The pins of the tabernacle, and the pins of the court, and their cords,
Exodus 35:19	The cloths of service, to do service in the holy [place], the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons, to minister in the priest’s office.
Exodus 35:20	And all the congregation of the children of Israel departed from the presence of Moses.
Exodus 35:21	And they came, every one whose heart stirred him up, and every one whom his spirit made willing, [and] they brought the LORD’S offering to the work of the tabernacle of the congregation, and for all his service, and for the holy garments.
Exodus 35:22	And they came, both men and women, as many as were willing hearted, [and] brought bracelets, and earrings, and rings, and tablets, all jewels of gold: and every man that offered [offered] an offering of gold unto the LORD.
Exodus 35:23	And every man, with whom was found blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen, and goats’ [hair], and red skins of rams, and badgers’ skins, brought [them].
Exodus 35:24	Every one that did offer an offering of silver and brass brought the LORD’S offering: and every man, with whom was found shittim wood for any work of the service, brought [it].
Exodus 35:25	And all the women that were wise hearted did spin with their hands, and brought that which they had spun, [both] of blue, and of purple, [and] of scarlet, and of fine linen.
Exodus 35:26	And all the women whose heart stirred them up in wisdom spun goats’ [hair].
Exodus 35:27	And the rulers brought onyx stones, and stones to be set, for the ephod, and for the breastplate;
Exodus 35:28	And spice, and oil for the light, and for the anointing oil, and for the sweet incense.
Exodus 35:29	The children of Israel brought a willing offering unto the LORD, every man and woman, whose heart made them willing to bring for all manner of work, which the LORD had commanded to be made by the hand of Moses.
Exodus 35:30	And Moses said unto the children of Israel, See, the LORD hath called by name Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah;
Exodus 35:31	And he hath filled him with the spirit of God, in wisdom, in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all manner of workmanship;
Exodus 35:32	And to devise curious works, to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass,
Exodus 35:33	And in the cutting of stones, to set [them], and in carving of wood, to make any manner of cunning work.
Exodus 35:34	And he hath put in his heart that he may teach, [both] he, and Aholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan.
Exodus 35:35	Them hath he filled with wisdom of heart, to work all manner of work, of the engraver, and of the cunning workman, and of the embroiderer, in blue, and in purple, in scarlet, and in fine linen, and of the weaver, [even] of them that do any work, and of those that devise cunning work.
Exodus 36:1	Then wrought Bezaleel and Aholiab, and every wise hearted man, in whom the LORD put wisdom and understanding to know how to work all manner of work for the service of the sanctuary, according to all that the LORD had commanded.
Exodus 36:2	And Moses called Bezaleel and Aholiab, and every wise hearted man, in whose heart the LORD had put wisdom, [even] every one whose heart stirred him up to come unto the work to do it:
Exodus 36:3	And they received of Moses all the offering, which the children of Israel had brought for the work of the service of the sanctuary, to make it [withal]. And they brought yet unto him free offerings every morning.
Exodus 36:4	And all the wise men, that wrought all the work of the sanctuary, came every man from his work which they made;
Exodus 36:5	And they spake unto Moses, saying, The people bring much more than enough for the service of the work, which the LORD commanded to make.
Exodus 36:6	And Moses gave commandment, and they caused it to be proclaimed throughout the camp, saying, Let neither man nor woman make any more work for the offering of the sanctuary. So the people were restrained from bringing.
Exodus 36:7	For the stuff they had was sufficient for all the work to make it, and too much.
Exodus 36:8	And every wise hearted man among them that wrought the work of the tabernacle made ten curtains [of] fine twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet: [with] cherubims of cunning work made he them.
Exodus 36:9	The length of one curtain [was] twenty and eight cubits, and the breadth of one curtain four cubits: the curtains [were] all of one size.
Exodus 36:10	And he coupled the five curtains one unto another: and [the other] five curtains he coupled one unto another.
Exodus 36:11	And he made loops of blue on the edge of one curtain from the selvedge in the coupling: likewise he made in the uttermost side of [another] curtain, in the coupling of the second.
Exodus 36:12	Fifty loops made he in one curtain, and fifty loops made he in the edge of the curtain which [was] in the coupling of the second: the loops held one [curtain] to another.
Exodus 36:13	And he made fifty taches of gold, and coupled the curtains one unto another with the taches: so it became one tabernacle.
Exodus 36:14	And he made curtains [of] goats’ [hair] for the tent over the tabernacle: eleven curtains he made them.
Exodus 36:15	The length of one curtain [was] thirty cubits, and four cubits [was] the breadth of one curtain: the eleven curtains [were] of one size.
Exodus 36:16	And he coupled five curtains by themselves, and six curtains by themselves.
Exodus 36:17	And he made fifty loops upon the uttermost edge of the curtain in the coupling, and fifty loops made he upon the edge of the curtain which coupleth the second.
Exodus 36:18	And he made fifty taches [of] brass to couple the tent together, that it might be one.
Exodus 36:19	And he made a covering for the tent [of] rams’ skins dyed red, and a covering [of] badgers’ skins above [that].
Exodus 36:20	And he made boards for the tabernacle [of] shittim wood, standing up.
Exodus 36:21	The length of a board [was] ten cubits, and the breadth of a board one cubit and a half.
Exodus 36:22	One board had two tenons, equally distant one from another: thus did he make for all the boards of the tabernacle.
Exodus 36:23	And he made boards for the tabernacle; twenty boards for the south side southward:
Exodus 36:24	And forty sockets of silver he made under the twenty boards; two sockets under one board for his two tenons, and two sockets under another board for his two tenons.
Exodus 36:25	And for the other side of the tabernacle, [which is] toward the north corner, he made twenty boards,
Exodus 36:26	And their forty sockets of silver; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board.
Exodus 36:27	And for the sides of the tabernacle westward he made six boards.
Exodus 36:28	And two boards made he for the corners of the tabernacle in the two sides.
Exodus 36:29	And they were coupled beneath, and coupled together at the head thereof, to one ring: thus he did to both of them in both the corners.
Exodus 36:30	And there were eight boards; and their sockets [were] sixteen sockets of silver, under every board two sockets.
Exodus 36:31	And he made bars of shittim wood; five for the boards of the one side of the tabernacle,
Exodus 36:32	And five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the tabernacle for the sides westward.
Exodus 36:33	And he made the middle bar to shoot through the boards from the one end to the other.
Exodus 36:34	And he overlaid the boards with gold, and made their rings [of] gold [to be] places for the bars, and overlaid the bars with gold.
Exodus 36:35	And he made a vail [of] blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen: [with] cherubims made he it of cunning work.
Exodus 36:36	And he made thereunto four pillars [of] shittim [wood], and overlaid them with gold: their hooks [were of] gold; and he cast for them four sockets of silver.
Exodus 36:37	And he made an hanging for the tabernacle door [of] blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, of needlework;
Exodus 36:38	And the five pillars of it with their hooks: and he overlaid their chapiters and their fillets with gold: but their five sockets [were of] brass.
Exodus 37:1	And Bezaleel made the ark [of] shittim wood: two cubits and a half [was] the length of it, and a cubit and a half the breadth of it, and a cubit and a half the height of it:
Exodus 37:2	And he overlaid it with pure gold within and without, and made a crown of gold to it round about.
Exodus 37:3	And he cast for it four rings of gold, [to be set] by the four corners of it; even two rings upon the one side of it, and two rings upon the other side of it.
Exodus 37:4	And he made staves [of] shittim wood, and overlaid them with gold.
Exodus 37:5	And he put the staves into the rings by the sides of the ark, to bear the ark.
Exodus 37:6	And he made the mercy seat [of] pure gold: two cubits and a half [was] the length thereof, and one cubit and a half the breadth thereof.
Exodus 37:7	And he made two cherubims [of] gold, beaten out of one piece made he them, on the two ends of the mercy seat;
Exodus 37:8	One cherub on the end on this side, and another cherub on the [other] end on that side: out of the mercy seat made he the cherubims on the two ends thereof.
Exodus 37:9	And the cherubims spread out [their] wings on high, [and] covered with their wings over the mercy seat, with their faces one to another; [even] to the mercy seatward were the faces of the cherubims.
Exodus 37:10	And he made the table [of] shittim wood: two cubits [was] the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof:
Exodus 37:11	And he overlaid it with pure gold, and made thereunto a crown of gold round about.
Exodus 37:12	Also he made thereunto a border of an handbreadth round about; and made a crown of gold for the border thereof round about.
Exodus 37:13	And he cast for it four rings of gold, and put the rings upon the four corners that [were] in the four feet thereof.
Exodus 37:14	Over against the border were the rings, the places for the staves to bear the table.
Exodus 37:15	And he made the staves [of] shittim wood, and overlaid them with gold, to bear the table.
Exodus 37:16	And he made the vessels which [were] upon the table, his dishes, and his spoons, and his bowls, and his covers to cover withal, [of] pure gold.
Exodus 37:17	And he made the candlestick [of] pure gold: [of] beaten work made he the candlestick; his shaft, and his branch, his bowls, his knops, and his flowers, were of the same:
Exodus 37:18	And six branches going out of the sides thereof; three branches of the candlestick out of the one side thereof, and three branches of the candlestick out of the other side thereof:
Exodus 37:19	Three bowls made after the fashion of almonds in one branch, a knop and a flower; and three bowls made like almonds in another branch, a knop and a flower: so throughout the six branches going out of the candlestick.
Exodus 37:20	And in the candlestick [were] four bowls made like almonds, his knops, and his flowers:
Exodus 37:21	And a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches of the same, according to the six branches going out of it.
Exodus 37:22	Their knops and their branches were of the same: all of it [was] one beaten work [of] pure gold.
Exodus 37:23	And he made his seven lamps, and his snuffers, and his snuffdishes, [of] pure gold.
Exodus 37:24	[Of] a talent of pure gold made he it, and all the vessels thereof.
Exodus 37:25	And he made the incense altar [of] shittim wood: the length of it [was] a cubit, and the breadth of it a cubit; [it was] foursquare; and two cubits [was] the height of it; the horns thereof were of the same.
Exodus 37:26	And he overlaid it with pure gold, [both] the top of it, and the sides thereof round about, and the horns of it: also he made unto it a crown of gold round about.
Exodus 37:27	And he made two rings of gold for it under the crown thereof, by the two corners of it, upon the two sides thereof, to be places for the staves to bear it withal.
Exodus 37:28	And he made the staves [of] shittim wood, and overlaid them with gold.
Exodus 37:29	And he made the holy anointing oil, and the pure incense of sweet spices, according to the work of the apothecary.
Exodus 38:1	And he made the altar of burnt offering [of] shittim wood: five cubits [was] the length thereof, and five cubits the breadth thereof; [it was] foursquare; and three cubits the height thereof.
Exodus 38:2	And he made the horns thereof on the four corners of it; the horns thereof were of the same: and he overlaid it with brass.
Exodus 38:3	And he made all the vessels of the altar, the pots, and the shovels, and the basons, [and] the fleshhooks, and the firepans: all the vessels thereof made he [of] brass.
Exodus 38:4	And he made for the altar a brasen grate of network under the compass thereof beneath unto the midst of it.
Exodus 38:5	And he cast four rings for the four ends of the grate of brass, [to be] places for the staves.
Exodus 38:6	And he made the staves [of] shittim wood, and overlaid them with brass.
Exodus 38:7	And he put the staves into the rings on the sides of the altar, to bear it withal; he made the altar hollow with boards.
Exodus 38:8	And he made the laver [of] brass, and the foot of it [of] brass, of the lookingglasses of [the women] assembling, which assembled [at] the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
Exodus 38:9	And he made the court: on the south side southward the hangings of the court [were of] fine twined linen, an hundred cubits:
Exodus 38:10	Their pillars [were] twenty, and their brasen sockets twenty; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets [were of] silver.
Exodus 38:11	And for the north side [the hangings were] an hundred cubits, their pillars [were] twenty, and their sockets of brass twenty; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets [of] silver.
Exodus 38:12	And for the west side [were] hangings of fifty cubits, their pillars ten, and their sockets ten; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets [of] silver.
Exodus 38:13	And for the east side eastward fifty cubits.
Exodus 38:14	The hangings of the one side [of the gate were] fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three.
Exodus 38:15	And for the other side of the court gate, on this hand and that hand, [were] hangings of fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three.
Exodus 38:16	All the hangings of the court round about [were] of fine twined linen.
Exodus 38:17	And the sockets for the pillars [were of] brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets [of] silver; and the overlaying of their chapiters [of] silver; and all the pillars of the court [were] filleted with silver.
Exodus 38:18	And the hanging for the gate of the court [was] needlework, [of] blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen: and twenty cubits [was] the length, and the height in the breadth [was] five cubits, answerable to the hangings of the court.
Exodus 38:19	And their pillars [were] four, and their sockets [of] brass four; their hooks [of] silver, and the overlaying of their chapiters and their fillets [of] silver.
Exodus 38:20	And all the pins of the tabernacle, and of the court round about, [were of] brass.
Exodus 38:21	This is the sum of the tabernacle, [even] of the tabernacle of testimony, as it was counted, according to the commandment of Moses, [for] the service of the Levites, by the hand of Ithamar, son to Aaron the priest.
Exodus 38:22	And Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, made all that the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 38:23	And with him [was] Aholiab, son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, an engraver, and a cunning workman, and an embroiderer in blue, and in purple, and in scarlet, and fine linen.
Exodus 38:24	All the gold that was occupied for the work in all the work of the holy [place], even the gold of the offering, was twenty and nine talents, and seven hundred and thirty shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary.
Exodus 38:25	And the silver of them that were numbered of the congregation [was] an hundred talents, and a thousand seven hundred and threescore and fifteen shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary:
Exodus 38:26	A bekah for every man, [that is], half a shekel, after the shekel of the sanctuary, for every one that went to be numbered, from twenty years old and upward, for six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty [men].
Exodus 38:27	And of the hundred talents of silver were cast the sockets of the sanctuary, and the sockets of the vail; an hundred sockets of the hundred talents, a talent for a socket.
Exodus 38:28	And of the thousand seven hundred seventy and five [shekels] he made hooks for the pillars, and overlaid their chapiters, and filleted them.
Exodus 38:29	And the brass of the offering [was] seventy talents, and two thousand and four hundred shekels.
Exodus 38:30	And therewith he made the sockets to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and the brasen altar, and the brasen grate for it, and all the vessels of the altar,
Exodus 38:31	And the sockets of the court round about, and the sockets of the court gate, and all the pins of the tabernacle, and all the pins of the court round about.
Exodus 39:1	And of the blue, and purple, and scarlet, they made cloths of service, to do service in the holy [place], and made the holy garments for Aaron; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:2	And he made the ephod [of] gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen.
Exodus 39:3	And they did beat the gold into thin plates, and cut [it into] wires, to work [it] in the blue, and in the purple, and in the scarlet, and in the fine linen, [with] cunning work.
Exodus 39:4	They made shoulderpieces for it, to couple [it] together: by the two edges was it coupled together.
Exodus 39:5	And the curious girdle of his ephod, that [was] upon it, [was] of the same, according to the work thereof; [of] gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:6	And they wrought onyx stones inclosed in ouches of gold, graven, as signets are graven, with the names of the children of Israel.
Exodus 39:7	And he put them on the shoulders of the ephod, [that they should be] stones for a memorial to the children of Israel; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:8	And he made the breastplate [of] cunning work, like the work of the ephod; [of] gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen.
Exodus 39:9	It was foursquare; they made the breastplate double: a span [was] the length thereof, and a span the breadth thereof, [being] doubled.
Exodus 39:10	And they set in it four rows of stones: [the first] row [was] a sardius, a topaz, and a carbuncle: this [was] the first row.
Exodus 39:11	And the second row, an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond.
Exodus 39:12	And the third row, a ligure, an agate, and an amethyst.
Exodus 39:13	And the fourth row, a beryl, an onyx, and a jasper: [they were] inclosed in ouches of gold in their inclosings.
Exodus 39:14	And the stones [were] according to the names of the children of Israel, twelve, according to their names, [like] the engravings of a signet, every one with his name, according to the twelve tribes.
Exodus 39:15	And they made upon the breastplate chains at the ends, [of] wreathen work [of] pure gold.
Exodus 39:16	And they made two ouches [of] gold, and two gold rings; and put the two rings in the two ends of the breastplate.
Exodus 39:17	And they put the two wreathen chains of gold in the two rings on the ends of the breastplate.
Exodus 39:18	And the two ends of the two wreathen chains they fastened in the two ouches, and put them on the shoulderpieces of the ephod, before it.
Exodus 39:19	And they made two rings of gold, and put [them] on the two ends of the breastplate, upon the border of it, which [was] on the side of the ephod inward.
Exodus 39:20	And they made two [other] golden rings, and put them on the two sides of the ephod underneath, toward the forepart of it, over against the [other] coupling thereof, above the curious girdle of the ephod.
Exodus 39:21	And they did bind the breastplate by his rings unto the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, that it might be above the curious girdle of the ephod, and that the breastplate might not be loosed from the ephod; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:22	And he made the robe of the ephod [of] woven work, all [of] blue.
Exodus 39:23	And [there was] an hole in the midst of the robe, as the hole of an habergeon, [with] a band round about the hole, that it should not rend.
Exodus 39:24	And they made upon the hems of the robe pomegranates [of] blue, and purple, and scarlet, [and] twined [linen].
Exodus 39:25	And they made bells [of] pure gold, and put the bells between the pomegranates upon the hem of the robe, round about between the pomegranates;
Exodus 39:26	A bell and a pomegranate, a bell and a pomegranate, round about the hem of the robe to minister [in]; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:27	And they made coats [of] fine linen [of] woven work for Aaron, and for his sons,
Exodus 39:28	And a mitre [of] fine linen, and goodly bonnets [of] fine linen, and linen breeches [of] fine twined linen,
Exodus 39:29	And a girdle [of] fine twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, [of] needlework; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:30	And they made the plate of the holy crown [of] pure gold, and wrote upon it a writing, [like to] the engravings of a signet, HOLINESS TO THE LORD.
Exodus 39:31	And they tied unto it a lace of blue, to fasten [it] on high upon the mitre; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:32	Thus was all the work of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation finished: and the children of Israel did according to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so did they.
Exodus 39:33	And they brought the tabernacle unto Moses, the tent, and all his furniture, his taches, his boards, his bars, and his pillars, and his sockets,
Exodus 39:34	And the covering of rams’ skins dyed red, and the covering of badgers’ skins, and the vail of the covering,
Exodus 39:35	The ark of the testimony, and the staves thereof, and the mercy seat,
Exodus 39:36	The table, [and] all the vessels thereof, and the shewbread,
Exodus 39:37	The pure candlestick, [with] the lamps thereof, [even with] the lamps to be set in order, and all the vessels thereof, and the oil for light,
Exodus 39:38	And the golden altar, and the anointing oil, and the sweet incense, and the hanging for the tabernacle door,
Exodus 39:39	The brasen altar, and his grate of brass, his staves, and all his vessels, the laver and his foot,
Exodus 39:40	The hangings of the court, his pillars, and his sockets, and the hanging for the court gate, his cords, and his pins, and all the vessels of the service of the tabernacle, for the tent of the congregation,
Exodus 39:41	The cloths of service to do service in the holy [place], and the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and his sons’ garments, to minister in the priest’s office.
Exodus 39:42	According to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so the children of Israel made all the work.
Exodus 39:43	And Moses did look upon all the work, and, behold, they had done it as the LORD had commanded, even so had they done it: and Moses blessed them.
Exodus 40:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Exodus 40:2	On the first day of the first month shalt thou set up the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation.
Exodus 40:3	And thou shalt put therein the ark of the testimony, and cover the ark with the vail.
Exodus 40:4	And thou shalt bring in the table, and set in order the things that are to be set in order upon it; and thou shalt bring in the candlestick, and light the lamps thereof.
Exodus 40:5	And thou shalt set the altar of gold for the incense before the ark of the testimony, and put the hanging of the door to the tabernacle.
Exodus 40:6	And thou shalt set the altar of the burnt offering before the door of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation.
Exodus 40:7	And thou shalt set the laver between the tent of the congregation and the altar, and shalt put water therein.
Exodus 40:8	And thou shalt set up the court round about, and hang up the hanging at the court gate.
Exodus 40:9	And thou shalt take the anointing oil, and anoint the tabernacle, and all that [is] therein, and shalt hallow it, and all the vessels thereof: and it shall be holy.
Exodus 40:10	And thou shalt anoint the altar of the burnt offering, and all his vessels, and sanctify the altar: and it shall be an altar most holy.
Exodus 40:11	And thou shalt anoint the laver and his foot, and sanctify it.
Exodus 40:12	And thou shalt bring Aaron and his sons unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and wash them with water.
Exodus 40:13	And thou shalt put upon Aaron the holy garments, and anoint him, and sanctify him; that he may minister unto me in the priest’s office.
Exodus 40:14	And thou shalt bring his sons, and clothe them with coats:
Exodus 40:15	And thou shalt anoint them, as thou didst anoint their father, that they may minister unto me in the priest’s office: for their anointing shall surely be an everlasting priesthood throughout their generations.
Exodus 40:16	Thus did Moses: according to all that the LORD commanded him, so did he.
Exodus 40:17	And it came to pass in the first month in the second year, on the first [day] of the month, [that] the tabernacle was reared up.
Exodus 40:18	And Moses reared up the tabernacle, and fastened his sockets, and set up the boards thereof, and put in the bars thereof, and reared up his pillars.
Exodus 40:19	And he spread abroad the tent over the tabernacle, and put the covering of the tent above upon it; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:20	And he took and put the testimony into the ark, and set the staves on the ark, and put the mercy seat above upon the ark:
Exodus 40:21	And he brought the ark into the tabernacle, and set up the vail of the covering, and covered the ark of the testimony; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:22	And he put the table in the tent of the congregation, upon the side of the tabernacle northward, without the vail.
Exodus 40:23	And he set the bread in order upon it before the LORD; as the LORD had commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:24	And he put the candlestick in the tent of the congregation, over against the table, on the side of the tabernacle southward.
Exodus 40:25	And he lighted the lamps before the LORD; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:26	And he put the golden altar in the tent of the congregation before the vail:
Exodus 40:27	And he burnt sweet incense thereon; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:28	And he set up the hanging [at] the door of the tabernacle.
Exodus 40:29	And he put the altar of burnt offering [by] the door of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation, and offered upon it the burnt offering and the meat offering; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:30	And he set the laver between the tent of the congregation and the altar, and put water there, to wash [withal].
Exodus 40:31	And Moses and Aaron and his sons washed their hands and their feet thereat:
Exodus 40:32	When they went into the tent of the congregation, and when they came near unto the altar, they washed; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:33	And he reared up the court round about the tabernacle and the altar, and set up the hanging of the court gate. So Moses finished the work.
Exodus 40:34	Then a cloud covered the tent of the congregation, and the glory of the LORD filled the tabernacle.
Exodus 40:35	And Moses was not able to enter into the tent of the congregation, because the cloud abode thereon, and the glory of the LORD filled the tabernacle.
Exodus 40:36	And when the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the children of Israel went onward in all their journeys:
Exodus 40:37	But if the cloud were not taken up, then they journeyed not till the day that it was taken up.
Exodus 40:38	For the cloud of the LORD [was] upon the tabernacle by day, and fire was on it by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel, throughout all their journeys.
