Leviticus 1:1	And the LORD called unto Moses, and spake unto him out of the tabernacle of the congregation, saying,

Leviticus 4:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Leviticus 5:14	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Leviticus 6:19	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Leviticus 7:22	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Leviticus 7:28	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Leviticus 8:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

Leviticus 8:4	And Moses did as the LORD commanded him; and the assembly was gathered together unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
Leviticus 8:5	And Moses said unto the congregation, This [is] the thing which the LORD commanded to be done.
Leviticus 8:6	And Moses brought Aaron and his sons, and washed them with water.
Leviticus 8:7	And he put upon him the coat, and girded him with the girdle, and clothed him with the robe, and put the ephod upon him, and he girded him with the curious girdle of the ephod, and bound [it] unto him therewith.
Leviticus 8:8	And he put the breastplate upon him: also he put in the breastplate the Urim and the Thummim.
Leviticus 8:9	And he put the mitre upon his head; also upon the mitre, [even] upon his forefront, did he put the golden plate, the holy crown; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Leviticus 8:10	And Moses took the anointing oil, and anointed the tabernacle and all that [was] therein, and sanctified them.
Leviticus 8:11	And he sprinkled thereof upon the altar seven times, and anointed the altar and all his vessels, both the laver and his foot, to sanctify them.
Leviticus 8:12	And he poured of the anointing oil upon Aaron’s head, and anointed him, to sanctify him.
Leviticus 8:13	And Moses brought Aaron’s sons, and put coats upon them, and girded them with girdles, and put bonnets upon them; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Leviticus 8:14	And he brought the bullock for the sin offering: and Aaron and his sons laid their hands upon the head of the bullock for the sin offering.
Leviticus 8:15	And he slew [it]; and Moses took the blood, and put [it] upon the horns of the altar round about with his finger, and purified the altar, and poured the blood at the bottom of the altar, and sanctified it, to make reconciliation upon it.
Leviticus 8:16	And he took all the fat that [was] upon the inwards, and the caul [above] the liver, and the two kidneys, and their fat, and Moses burned [it] upon the altar.
Leviticus 8:17	But the bullock, and his hide, his flesh, and his dung, he burnt with fire without the camp; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Leviticus 8:18	And he brought the ram for the burnt offering: and Aaron and his sons laid their hands upon the head of the ram.
Leviticus 8:19	And he killed [it]; and Moses sprinkled the blood upon the altar round about.
Leviticus 8:20	And he cut the ram into pieces; and Moses burnt the head, and the pieces, and the fat.
Leviticus 8:21	And he washed the inwards and the legs in water; and Moses burnt the whole ram upon the altar: it [was] a burnt sacrifice for a sweet savour, [and] an offering made by fire unto the LORD; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Leviticus 8:22	And he brought the other ram, the ram of consecration: and Aaron and his sons laid their hands upon the head of the ram.
Leviticus 8:23	And he slew [it]; and Moses took of the blood of it, and put [it] upon the tip of Aaron’s right ear, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot.
Leviticus 8:24	And he brought Aaron’s sons, and Moses put of the blood upon the tip of their right ear, and upon the thumbs of their right hands, and upon the great toes of their right feet: and Moses sprinkled the blood upon the altar round about.
Leviticus 8:25	And he took the fat, and the rump, and all the fat that [was] upon the inwards, and the caul [above] the liver, and the two kidneys, and their fat, and the right shoulder:
Leviticus 8:26	And out of the basket of unleavened bread, that [was] before the LORD, he took one unleavened cake, and a cake of oiled bread, and one wafer, and put [them] on the fat, and upon the right shoulder:
Leviticus 8:27	And he put all upon Aaron’s hands, and upon his sons’ hands, and waved them [for] a wave offering before the LORD.
Leviticus 8:28	And Moses took them from off their hands, and burnt [them] on the altar upon the burnt offering: they [were] consecrations for a sweet savour: it [is] an offering made by fire unto the LORD.
Leviticus 8:29	And Moses took the breast, and waved it [for] a wave offering before the LORD: [for] of the ram of consecration it was Moses’ part; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Leviticus 8:30	And Moses took of the anointing oil, and of the blood which [was] upon the altar, and sprinkled [it] upon Aaron, [and] upon his garments, and upon his sons, and upon his sons’ garments with him; and sanctified Aaron, [and] his garments, and his sons, and his sons’ garments with him.
Leviticus 8:31	And Moses said unto Aaron and to his sons, 

Leviticus 8:36	So Aaron and his sons did all things which the LORD commanded by the hand of Moses.
Leviticus 9:1	And it came to pass on the eighth day, [that] Moses called Aaron and his sons, and the elders of Israel;
Leviticus 9:2	And he said unto Aaron, 

Leviticus 9:5	And they brought [that] which Moses commanded before the tabernacle of the congregation: and all the congregation drew near and stood before the LORD.
Leviticus 9:6	And Moses said, 

Leviticus 9:7	And Moses said unto Aaron, 

Leviticus 9:8	Aaron therefore went unto the altar, and slew the calf of the sin offering, which [was] for himself.
Leviticus 9:9	And the sons of Aaron brought the blood unto him: and he dipped his finger in the blood, and put [it] upon the horns of the altar, and poured out the blood at the bottom of the altar:
Leviticus 9:10	But the fat, and the kidneys, and the caul above the liver of the sin offering, he burnt upon the altar; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Leviticus 9:11	And the flesh and the hide he burnt with fire without the camp.
Leviticus 9:12	And he slew the burnt offering; and Aaron’s sons presented unto him the blood, which he sprinkled round about upon the altar.
Leviticus 9:13	And they presented the burnt offering unto him, with the pieces thereof, and the head: and he burnt [them] upon the altar.
Leviticus 9:14	And he did wash the inwards and the legs, and burnt [them] upon the burnt offering on the altar.
Leviticus 9:15	And he brought the people’s offering, and took the goat, which [was] the sin offering for the people, and slew it, and offered it for sin, as the first.
Leviticus 9:16	And he brought the burnt offering, and offered it according to the manner.
Leviticus 9:17	And he brought the meat offering, and took an handful thereof, and burnt [it] upon the altar, beside the burnt sacrifice of the morning.
Leviticus 9:18	He slew also the bullock and the ram [for] a sacrifice of peace offerings, which [was] for the people: and Aaron’s sons presented unto him the blood, which he sprinkled upon the altar round about,
Leviticus 9:19	And the fat of the bullock and of the ram, the rump, and that which covereth [the inwards], and the kidneys, and the caul [above] the liver:
Leviticus 9:20	And they put the fat upon the breasts, and he burnt the fat upon the altar:
Leviticus 9:21	And the breasts and the right shoulder Aaron waved [for] a wave offering before the LORD; as Moses commanded.
Leviticus 9:22	And Aaron lifted up his hand toward the people, and blessed them, and came down from offering of the sin offering, and the burnt offering, and peace offerings.
Leviticus 9:23	And Moses and Aaron went into the tabernacle of the congregation, and came out, and blessed the people: and the glory of the LORD appeared unto all the people.
Leviticus 9:24	And there came a fire out from before the LORD, and consumed upon the altar the burnt offering and the fat: [which] when all the people saw, they shouted, and fell on their faces.
Leviticus 10:1	And Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, took either of them his censer, and put fire therein, and put incense thereon, and offered strange fire before the LORD, which he commanded them not.
Leviticus 10:2	And there went out fire from the LORD, and devoured them, and they died before the LORD.
Leviticus 10:3	Then Moses said unto Aaron, 


Leviticus 10:4	And Moses called Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel the uncle of Aaron, and said unto them, 

Leviticus 10:5	So they went near, and carried them in their coats out of the camp; as Moses had said.
Leviticus 10:6	And Moses said unto Aaron, and unto Eleazar and unto Ithamar, his sons, 

Leviticus 10:8	And the LORD spake unto Aaron, saying,


Leviticus 10:12	And Moses spake unto Aaron, and unto Eleazar and unto Ithamar, his sons that were left, 

Leviticus 10:16	And Moses diligently sought the goat of the sin offering, and, behold, it was burnt: and he was angry with Eleazar and Ithamar, the sons of Aaron [which were] left [alive], saying,


Leviticus 10:19	And Aaron said unto Moses, 

Leviticus 10:20	And when Moses heard [that], he was content.
Leviticus 11:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses and to Aaron, saying unto them,


Leviticus 12:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Leviticus 14:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Leviticus 16:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses after the death of the two sons of Aaron, when they offered before the LORD, and died;
Leviticus 16:2	And the LORD said unto Moses, 
 And he did as the LORD commanded Moses.
Leviticus 17:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Leviticus 18:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Leviticus 21:1	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Leviticus 21:16	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Leviticus 23:23	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Leviticus 24:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Leviticus 25:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses in mount Sinai, saying,


Leviticus 26:46	These [are] the statutes and judgments and laws, which the LORD made between him and the children of Israel in mount Sinai by the hand of Moses.
Leviticus 27:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Leviticus 27:34	These [are] the commandments, which the LORD commanded Moses for the children of Israel in mount Sinai.
