Stand still, and I will hear what the LORD will command concerning you.


We are journeying unto the place of which the LORD said, I will give it you: come thou with us, and we will do thee good: for the LORD hath spoken good concerning Israel.

Leave us not, I pray thee; forasmuch as thou knowest how we are to encamp in the wilderness, and thou mayest be to us instead of eyes.
Numbers 10:32	And it shall be, if thou go with us, yea, it shall be, that what goodness the LORD shall do unto us, the same will we do unto thee.

Rise up, LORD, and let thine enemies be scattered; and let them that hate thee flee before thee.

Wherefore hast thou afflicted thy servant? and wherefore have I not found favour in thy sight, that thou layest the burden of all this people upon me?
Numbers 11:12	Have I conceived all this people? have I begotten them, that thou shouldest say unto me, Carry them in thy bosom, as a nursing father beareth the sucking child, unto the land which thou swarest unto their fathers?
Numbers 11:13	Whence should I have flesh to give unto all this people? for they weep unto me, saying, Give us flesh, that we may eat.
Numbers 11:14	I am not able to bear all this people alone, because [it is] too heavy for me.
Numbers 11:15	And if thou deal thus with me, kill me, I pray thee, out of hand, if I have found favour in thy sight; and let me not see my wretchedness.

The people, among whom I [am], [are] six hundred thousand footmen; and thou hast said, I will give them flesh, that they may eat a whole month.
Numbers 11:22	Shall the flocks and the herds be slain for them, to suffice them? or shall all the fish of the sea be gathered together for them, to suffice them?

Enviest thou for my sake? would God that all the LORD’S people were prophets, [and] that the LORD would put his spirit upon them!

 Heal her now, O God, I beseech thee.

Get you up this [way] southward, and go up into the mountain:
Numbers 13:18	And see the land, what it [is]; and the people that dwelleth therein, whether they [be] strong or weak, few or many;
Numbers 13:19	And what the land [is] that they dwell in, whether it [be] good or bad; and what cities [they be] that they dwell in, whether in tents, or in strong holds;
Numbers 13:20	And what the land [is], whether it [be] fat or lean, whether there be wood therein, or not. And be ye of good courage, and bring of the fruit of the land. Now the time [was] the time of the firstripe grapes.

Then the Egyptians shall hear [it], (for thou broughtest up this people in thy might from among them;)
Numbers 14:14	And they will tell [it] to the inhabitants of this land: [for] they have heard that thou LORD [art] among this people, that thou LORD art seen face to face, and [that] thy cloud standeth over them, and [that] thou goest before them, by day time in a pillar of a cloud, and in a pillar of fire by night.
Numbers 14:15	Now [if] thou shalt kill [all] this people as one man, then the nations which have heard the fame of thee will speak, saying,
Numbers 14:16	Because the LORD was not able to bring this people into the land which he sware unto them, therefore he hath slain them in the wilderness.
Numbers 14:17	And now, I beseech thee, let the power of my Lord be great, according as thou hast spoken, saying,
Numbers 14:18	The LORD [is] longsuffering, and of great mercy, forgiving iniquity and transgression, and by no means clearing [the guilty], visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth [generation].
Numbers 14:19	Pardon, I beseech thee, the iniquity of this people according unto the greatness of thy mercy, and as thou hast forgiven this people, from Egypt even until now.

Even to morrow the LORD will shew who [are] his, and [who is] holy; and will cause [him] to come near unto him: even [him] whom he hath chosen will he cause to come near unto him.
Numbers 16:6	This do; Take you censers, Korah, and all his company;
Numbers 16:7	And put fire therein, and put incense in them before the LORD to morrow: and it shall be [that] the man whom the LORD doth choose, he [shall be] holy: [ye take] too much upon you, ye sons of Levi.

Hear, I pray you, ye sons of Levi:
Numbers 16:9	[Seemeth it but] a small thing unto you, that the God of Israel hath separated you from the congregation of Israel, to bring you near to himself to do the service of the tabernacle of the LORD, and to stand before the congregation to minister unto them?
Numbers 16:10	And he hath brought thee near [to him], and all thy brethren the sons of Levi with thee: and seek ye the priesthood also?
Numbers 16:11	For which cause [both] thou and all thy company [are] gathered together against the LORD: and what [is] Aaron, that ye murmur against him?

Respect not thou their offering: I have not taken one ass from them, neither have I hurt one of them.

Be thou and all thy company before the LORD, thou, and they, and Aaron, to morrow:
Numbers 16:17	And take every man his censer, and put incense in them, and bring ye before the LORD every man his censer, two hundred and fifty censers; thou also, and Aaron, each [of you] his censer.

O God, the God of the spirits of all flesh, shall one man sin, and wilt thou be wroth with all the congregation?

Depart, I pray you, from the tents of these wicked men, and touch nothing of theirs, lest ye be consumed in all their sins.

Hereby ye shall know that the LORD hath sent me to do all these works; for [I have] not [done them] of mine own mind.
Numbers 16:29	If these men die the common death of all men, or if they be visited after the visitation of all men; [then] the LORD hath not sent me.
Numbers 16:30	But if the LORD make a new thing, and the earth open her mouth, and swallow them up, with all that [appertain] unto them, and they go down quick into the pit; then ye shall understand that these men have provoked the LORD.

Take a censer, and put fire therein from off the altar, and put on incense, and go quickly unto the congregation, and make an atonement for them: for there is wrath gone out from the LORD; the plague is begun.

Hear now, ye rebels; must we fetch you water out of this rock?

Slay ye every one his men that were joined unto Baalpeor.

Numbers 27:16	Let the LORD, the God of the spirits of all flesh, set a man over the congregation,
Numbers 27:17	Which may go out before them, and which may go in before them, and which may lead them out, and which may bring them in; that the congregation of the LORD be not as sheep which have no shepherd.

Arm some of yourselves unto the war, and let them go against the Midianites, and avenge the LORD of Midian.
Numbers 31:4	Of every tribe a thousand, throughout all the tribes of Israel, shall ye send to the war.
Numbers 31:5	So there were delivered out of the thousands of Israel, a thousand of [every] tribe, twelve thousand armed for war.

Have ye saved all the women alive?
Numbers 31:16	Behold, these caused the children of Israel, through the counsel of Balaam, to commit trespass against the LORD in the matter of Peor, and there was a plague among the congregation of the LORD.
Numbers 31:17	Now therefore kill every male among the little ones, and kill every woman that hath known man by lying with him.
Numbers 31:18	But all the women children, that have not known a man by lying with him, keep alive for yourselves.
Numbers 31:19	And do ye abide without the camp seven days: whosoever hath killed any person, and whosoever hath touched any slain, purify [both] yourselves and your captives on the third day, and on the seventh day.
Numbers 31:20	And purify all [your] raiment, and all that is made of skins, and all work of goats’ [hair], and all things made of wood.

Shall your brethren go to war, and shall ye sit here?
Numbers 32:7	And wherefore discourage ye the heart of the children of Israel from going over into the land which the LORD hath given them?
Numbers 32:8	Thus did your fathers, when I sent them from Kadeshbarnea to see the land.
Numbers 32:9	For when they went up unto the valley of Eshcol, and saw the land, they discouraged the heart of the children of Israel, that they should not go into the land which the LORD had given them.
Numbers 32:10	And the LORD’S anger was kindled the same time, and he sware, saying,
Numbers 32:11	Surely none of the men that came up out of Egypt, from twenty years old and upward, shall see the land which I sware unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob; because they have not wholly followed me:
Numbers 32:12	Save Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenezite, and Joshua the son of Nun: for they have wholly followed the LORD.
Numbers 32:13	And the LORD’S anger was kindled against Israel, and he made them wander in the wilderness forty years, until all the generation, that had done evil in the sight of the LORD, was consumed.
Numbers 32:14	And, behold, ye are risen up in your fathers’ stead, an increase of sinful men, to augment yet the fierce anger of the LORD toward Israel.
Numbers 32:15	For if ye turn away from after him, he will yet again leave them in the wilderness; and ye shall destroy all this people.

If ye will do this thing, if ye will go armed before the LORD to war,
Numbers 32:21	And will go all of you armed over Jordan before the LORD, until he hath driven out his enemies from before him,
Numbers 32:22	And the land be subdued before the LORD: then afterward ye shall return, and be guiltless before the LORD, and before Israel; and this land shall be your possession before the LORD.
Numbers 32:23	But if ye will not do so, behold, ye have sinned against the LORD: and be sure your sin will find you out.
Numbers 32:24	Build you cities for your little ones, and folds for your sheep; and do that which hath proceeded out of your mouth.
Numbers 32:25	And the children of Gad and the children of Reuben spake unto Moses, saying, Thy servants will do as my lord commandeth.
Numbers 32:26	Our little ones, our wives, our flocks, and all our cattle, shall be there in the cities of Gilead:
Numbers 32:27	But thy servants will pass over, every man armed for war, before the LORD to battle, as my lord saith.

If the children of Gad and the children of Reuben will pass with you over Jordan, every man armed to battle, before the LORD, and the land shall be subdued before you; then ye shall give them the land of Gilead for a possession:
Numbers 32:30	But if they will not pass over with you armed, they shall have possessions among you in the land of Canaan.

The tribe of the sons of Joseph hath said well.
Numbers 36:6	This [is] the thing which the LORD doth command concerning the daughters of Zelophehad, saying, Let them marry to whom they think best; only to the family of the tribe of their father shall they marry.
Numbers 36:7	So shall not the inheritance of the children of Israel remove from tribe to tribe: for every one of the children of Israel shall keep himself to the inheritance of the tribe of his fathers.
Numbers 36:8	And every daughter, that possesseth an inheritance in any tribe of the children of Israel, shall be wife unto one of the family of the tribe of her father, that the children of Israel may enjoy every man the inheritance of his fathers.
Numbers 36:9	Neither shall the inheritance remove from [one] tribe to another tribe; but every one of the tribes of the children of Israel shall keep himself to his own inheritance.



