Numbers 1:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the tabernacle of the congregation, on the first [day] of the second month, in the second year after they were come out of the land of Egypt, saying,


Numbers 1:16	These [were] the renowned of the congregation, princes of the tribes of their fathers, heads of thousands in Israel.
Numbers 1:17	And Moses and Aaron took these men which are expressed by [their] names:
Numbers 1:18	And they assembled all the congregation together on the first [day] of the second month, and they declared their pedigrees after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, by their polls.
Numbers 1:19	As the LORD commanded Moses, so he numbered them in the wilderness of Sinai.
Numbers 1:20	And the children of Reuben, Israel’s eldest son, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, by their polls, every male from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;
Numbers 1:21	Those that were numbered of them, [even] of the tribe of Reuben, [were] forty and six thousand and five hundred.
Numbers 1:22	Of the children of Simeon, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, those that were numbered of them, according to the number of the names, by their polls, every male from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;
Numbers 1:23	Those that were numbered of them, [even] of the tribe of Simeon, [were] fifty and nine thousand and three hundred.
Numbers 1:24	Of the children of Gad, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;
Numbers 1:25	Those that were numbered of them, [even] of the tribe of Gad, [were] forty and five thousand six hundred and fifty.
Numbers 1:26	Of the children of Judah, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;
Numbers 1:27	Those that were numbered of them, [even] of the tribe of Judah, [were] threescore and fourteen thousand and six hundred.
Numbers 1:28	Of the children of Issachar, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;
Numbers 1:29	Those that were numbered of them, [even] of the tribe of Issachar, [were] fifty and four thousand and four hundred.
Numbers 1:30	Of the children of Zebulun, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;
Numbers 1:31	Those that were numbered of them, [even] of the tribe of Zebulun, [were] fifty and seven thousand and four hundred.
Numbers 1:32	Of the children of Joseph, [namely], of the children of Ephraim, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;
Numbers 1:33	Those that were numbered of them, [even] of the tribe of Ephraim, [were] forty thousand and five hundred.
Numbers 1:34	Of the children of Manasseh, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;
Numbers 1:35	Those that were numbered of them, [even] of the tribe of Manasseh, [were] thirty and two thousand and two hundred.
Numbers 1:36	Of the children of Benjamin, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;
Numbers 1:37	Those that were numbered of them, [even] of the tribe of Benjamin, [were] thirty and five thousand and four hundred.
Numbers 1:38	Of the children of Dan, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;
Numbers 1:39	Those that were numbered of them, [even] of the tribe of Dan, [were] threescore and two thousand and seven hundred.
Numbers 1:40	Of the children of Asher, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;
Numbers 1:41	Those that were numbered of them, [even] of the tribe of Asher, [were] forty and one thousand and five hundred.
Numbers 1:42	Of the children of Naphtali, throughout their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;
Numbers 1:43	Those that were numbered of them, [even] of the tribe of Naphtali, [were] fifty and three thousand and four hundred.
Numbers 1:44	These [are] those that were numbered, which Moses and Aaron numbered, and the princes of Israel, [being] twelve men: each one was for the house of his fathers.
Numbers 1:45	So were all those that were numbered of the children of Israel, by the house of their fathers, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war in Israel;
Numbers 1:46	Even all they that were numbered were six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty.
Numbers 1:47	But the Levites after the tribe of their fathers were not numbered among them.
Numbers 1:48	For the LORD had spoken unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 1:49	Only thou shalt not number the tribe of Levi, neither take the sum of them among the children of Israel:
Numbers 1:50	But thou shalt appoint the Levites over the tabernacle of testimony, and over all the vessels thereof, and over all things that [belong] to it: they shall bear the tabernacle, and all the vessels thereof; and they shall minister unto it, and shall encamp round about the tabernacle.
Numbers 1:51	And when the tabernacle setteth forward, the Levites shall take it down: and when the tabernacle is to be pitched, the Levites shall set it up: and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death.
Numbers 1:52	And the children of Israel shall pitch their tents, every man by his own camp, and every man by his own standard, throughout their hosts.
Numbers 1:53	But the Levites shall pitch round about the tabernacle of testimony, that there be no wrath upon the congregation of the children of Israel: and the Levites shall keep the charge of the tabernacle of testimony.
Numbers 1:54	And the children of Israel did according to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so did they.
Numbers 2:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying,


Numbers 2:4	And his host, and those that were numbered of them, [were] threescore and fourteen thousand and six hundred.


Numbers 2:6	And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, [were] fifty and four thousand and four hundred.


Numbers 2:8	And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, [were] fifty and seven thousand and four hundred.
Numbers 2:9	All that were numbered in the camp of Judah [were] an hundred thousand and fourscore thousand and six thousand and four hundred, throughout their armies. These shall first set forth.


Numbers 2:11	And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, [were] forty and six thousand and five hundred.


Numbers 2:13	And his host, and those that were numbered of them, [were] fifty and nine thousand and three hundred.


Numbers 2:15	And his host, and those that were numbered of them, [were] forty and five thousand and six hundred and fifty.
Numbers 2:16	All that were numbered in the camp of Reuben [were] an hundred thousand and fifty and one thousand and four hundred and fifty, throughout their armies. 

Numbers 2:19	And his host, and those that were numbered of them, [were] forty thousand and five hundred.


Numbers 2:21	And his host, and those that were numbered of them, [were] thirty and two thousand and two hundred.


Numbers 2:23	And his host, and those that were numbered of them, [were] thirty and five thousand and four hundred.
Numbers 2:24	All that were numbered of the camp of Ephraim [were] an hundred thousand and eight thousand and an hundred, throughout their armies. And they shall go forward in the third rank.


Numbers 2:26	And his host, and those that were numbered of them, [were] threescore and two thousand and seven hundred.


Numbers 2:28	And his host, and those that were numbered of them, [were] forty and one thousand and five hundred.


Numbers 2:30	And his host, and those that were numbered of them, [were] fifty and three thousand and four hundred.
Numbers 2:31	All they that were numbered in the camp of Dan [were] an hundred thousand and fifty and seven thousand and six hundred. They shall go hindmost with their standards.
Numbers 2:32	These [are] those which were numbered of the children of Israel by the house of their fathers: all those that were numbered of the camps throughout their hosts [were] six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty.
Numbers 2:33	But the Levites were not numbered among the children of Israel; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 2:34	And the children of Israel did according to all that the LORD commanded Moses: so they pitched by their standards, and so they set forward, every one after their families, according to the house of their fathers.
Numbers 3:1	These also [are] the generations of Aaron and Moses in the day [that] the LORD spake with Moses in mount Sinai.
Numbers 3:2	And these [are] the names of the sons of Aaron; Nadab the firstborn, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
Numbers 3:3	These [are] the names of the sons of Aaron, the priests which were anointed, whom he consecrated to minister in the priest’s office.
Numbers 3:4	And Nadab and Abihu died before the LORD, when they offered strange fire before the LORD, in the wilderness of Sinai, and they had no children: and Eleazar and Ithamar ministered in the priest’s office in the sight of Aaron their father.
Numbers 3:5	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Numbers 3:11	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Numbers 3:14	And the LORD spake unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, saying,


Numbers 3:39	All that were numbered of the Levites, which Moses and Aaron numbered at the commandment of the LORD, throughout their families, all the males from a month old and upward, [were] twenty and two thousand.
Numbers 3:40	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Numbers 3:42	And Moses numbered, as the LORD commanded him, all the firstborn among the children of Israel.
Numbers 3:43	And all the firstborn males by the number of names, from a month old and upward, of those that were numbered of them, were twenty and two thousand two hundred and threescore and thirteen.
Numbers 3:44	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Numbers 3:49	And Moses took the redemption money of them that were over and above them that were redeemed by the Levites:
Numbers 3:50	Of the firstborn of the children of Israel took he the money; a thousand three hundred and threescore and five [shekels], after the shekel of the sanctuary:
Numbers 3:51	And Moses gave the money of them that were redeemed unto Aaron and to his sons, according to the word of the LORD, as the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 4:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying,


Numbers 4:21	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Numbers 4:34	And Moses and Aaron and the chief of the congregation numbered the sons of the Kohathites after their families, and after the house of their fathers,
Numbers 4:35	From thirty years old and upward even unto fifty years old, every one that entereth into the service, for the work in the tabernacle of the congregation:
Numbers 4:36	And those that were numbered of them by their families were two thousand seven hundred and fifty.
Numbers 4:37	These [were] they that were numbered of the families of the Kohathites, all that might do service in the tabernacle of the congregation, which Moses and Aaron did number according to the commandment of the LORD by the hand of Moses.
Numbers 4:38	And those that were numbered of the sons of Gershon, throughout their families, and by the house of their fathers,
Numbers 4:39	From thirty years old and upward even unto fifty years old, every one that entereth into the service, for the work in the tabernacle of the congregation,
Numbers 4:40	Even those that were numbered of them, throughout their families, by the house of their fathers, were two thousand and six hundred and thirty.
Numbers 4:41	These [are] they that were numbered of the families of the sons of Gershon, of all that might do service in the tabernacle of the congregation, whom Moses and Aaron did number according to the commandment of the LORD.
Numbers 4:42	And those that were numbered of the families of the sons of Merari, throughout their families, by the house of their fathers,
Numbers 4:43	From thirty years old and upward even unto fifty years old, every one that entereth into the service, for the work in the tabernacle of the congregation,
Numbers 4:44	Even those that were numbered of them after their families, were three thousand and two hundred.
Numbers 4:45	These [be] those that were numbered of the families of the sons of Merari, whom Moses and Aaron numbered according to the word of the LORD by the hand of Moses.
Numbers 4:46	All those that were numbered of the Levites, whom Moses and Aaron and the chief of Israel numbered, after their families, and after the house of their fathers,
Numbers 4:47	From thirty years old and upward even unto fifty years old, every one that came to do the service of the ministry, and the service of the burden in the tabernacle of the congregation,
Numbers 4:48	Even those that were numbered of them, were eight thousand and five hundred and fourscore.
Numbers 4:49	According to the commandment of the LORD they were numbered by the hand of Moses, every one according to his service, and according to his burden: thus were they numbered of him, as the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 5:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Numbers 5:4	And the children of Israel did so, and put them out without the camp: as the LORD spake unto Moses, so did the children of Israel.
Numbers 5:5	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Numbers 5:11	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Numbers 6:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Numbers 6:22	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Numbers 7:4	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Numbers 7:6	And Moses took the wagons and the oxen, and gave them unto the Levites.
Numbers 7:7	Two wagons and four oxen he gave unto the sons of Gershon, according to their service:
Numbers 7:8	And four wagons and eight oxen he gave unto the sons of Merari, according unto their service, under the hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.
Numbers 7:9	But unto the sons of Kohath he gave none: because the service of the sanctuary belonging unto them [was that] they should bear upon their shoulders.
Numbers 7:10	And the princes offered for dedicating of the altar in the day that it was anointed, even the princes offered their offering before the altar.
Numbers 7:11	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Numbers 7:12	And he that offered his offering the first day was Nahshon the son of Amminadab, of the tribe of Judah:
Numbers 7:13	And his offering [was] one silver charger, the weight thereof [was] an hundred and thirty [shekels], one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them [were] full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:
Numbers 7:14	One spoon of ten [shekels] of gold, full of incense:
Numbers 7:15	One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:
Numbers 7:16	One kid of the goats for a sin offering:
Numbers 7:17	And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this [was] the offering of Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
Numbers 7:18	On the second day Nethaneel the son of Zuar, prince of Issachar, did offer:
Numbers 7:19	He offered [for] his offering one silver charger, the weight whereof [was] an hundred and thirty [shekels], one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:
Numbers 7:20	One spoon of gold of ten [shekels], full of incense:
Numbers 7:21	One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:
Numbers 7:22	One kid of the goats for a sin offering:
Numbers 7:23	And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this [was] the offering of Nethaneel the son of Zuar.
Numbers 7:24	On the third day Eliab the son of Helon, prince of the children of Zebulun, [did offer]:
Numbers 7:25	His offering [was] one silver charger, the weight whereof [was] an hundred and thirty [shekels], one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:
Numbers 7:26	One golden spoon of ten [shekels], full of incense:
Numbers 7:27	One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:
Numbers 7:28	One kid of the goats for a sin offering:
Numbers 7:29	And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this [was] the offering of Eliab the son of Helon.
Numbers 7:30	On the fourth day Elizur the son of Shedeur, prince of the children of Reuben, [did offer]:
Numbers 7:31	His offering [was] one silver charger of the weight of an hundred and thirty [shekels], one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:
Numbers 7:32	One golden spoon of ten [shekels], full of incense:
Numbers 7:33	One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:
Numbers 7:34	One kid of the goats for a sin offering:
Numbers 7:35	And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this [was] the offering of Elizur the son of Shedeur.
Numbers 7:36	On the fifth day Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai, prince of the children of Simeon, [did offer]:
Numbers 7:37	His offering [was] one silver charger, the weight whereof [was] an hundred and thirty [shekels], one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:
Numbers 7:38	One golden spoon of ten [shekels], full of incense:
Numbers 7:39	One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:
Numbers 7:40	One kid of the goats for a sin offering:
Numbers 7:41	And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this [was] the offering of Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
Numbers 7:42	On the sixth day Eliasaph the son of Deuel, prince of the children of Gad, [offered]:
Numbers 7:43	His offering [was] one silver charger of the weight of an hundred and thirty [shekels], a silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:
Numbers 7:44	One golden spoon of ten [shekels], full of incense:
Numbers 7:45	One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:
Numbers 7:46	One kid of the goats for a sin offering:
Numbers 7:47	And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this [was] the offering of Eliasaph the son of Deuel.
Numbers 7:48	On the seventh day Elishama the son of Ammihud, prince of the children of Ephraim, [offered]:
Numbers 7:49	His offering [was] one silver charger, the weight whereof [was] an hundred and thirty [shekels], one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:
Numbers 7:50	One golden spoon of ten [shekels], full of incense:
Numbers 7:51	One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:
Numbers 7:52	One kid of the goats for a sin offering:
Numbers 7:53	And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this [was] the offering of Elishama the son of Ammihud.
Numbers 7:54	On the eighth day [offered] Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur, prince of the children of Manasseh:
Numbers 7:55	His offering [was] one silver charger of the weight of an hundred and thirty [shekels], one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:
Numbers 7:56	One golden spoon of ten [shekels], full of incense:
Numbers 7:57	One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:
Numbers 7:58	One kid of the goats for a sin offering:
Numbers 7:59	And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this [was] the offering of Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
Numbers 7:60	On the ninth day Abidan the son of Gideoni, prince of the children of Benjamin, [offered]:
Numbers 7:61	His offering [was] one silver charger, the weight whereof [was] an hundred and thirty [shekels], one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:
Numbers 7:62	One golden spoon of ten [shekels], full of incense:
Numbers 7:63	One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:
Numbers 7:64	One kid of the goats for a sin offering:
Numbers 7:65	And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this [was] the offering of Abidan the son of Gideoni.
Numbers 7:66	On the tenth day Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai, prince of the children of Dan, [offered]:
Numbers 7:67	His offering [was] one silver charger, the weight whereof [was] an hundred and thirty [shekels], one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:
Numbers 7:68	One golden spoon of ten [shekels], full of incense:
Numbers 7:69	One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:
Numbers 7:70	One kid of the goats for a sin offering:
Numbers 7:71	And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this [was] the offering of Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
Numbers 7:72	On the eleventh day Pagiel the son of Ocran, prince of the children of Asher, [offered]:
Numbers 7:73	His offering [was] one silver charger, the weight whereof [was] an hundred and thirty [shekels], one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:
Numbers 7:74	One golden spoon of ten [shekels], full of incense:
Numbers 7:75	One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:
Numbers 7:76	One kid of the goats for a sin offering:
Numbers 7:77	And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this [was] the offering of Pagiel the son of Ocran.
Numbers 7:78	On the twelfth day Ahira the son of Enan, prince of the children of Naphtali, [offered]:
Numbers 7:79	His offering [was] one silver charger, the weight whereof [was] an hundred and thirty [shekels], one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:
Numbers 7:80	One golden spoon of ten [shekels], full of incense:
Numbers 7:81	One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:
Numbers 7:82	One kid of the goats for a sin offering:
Numbers 7:83	And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this [was] the offering of Ahira the son of Enan.
Numbers 7:84	This [was] the dedication of the altar, in the day when it was anointed, by the princes of Israel: twelve chargers of silver, twelve silver bowls, twelve spoons of gold:
Numbers 7:85	Each charger of silver [weighing] an hundred and thirty [shekels], each bowl seventy: all the silver vessels [weighed] two thousand and four hundred [shekels], after the shekel of the sanctuary:
Numbers 7:86	The golden spoons [were] twelve, full of incense, [weighing] ten [shekels] apiece, after the shekel of the sanctuary: all the gold of the spoons [was] an hundred and twenty [shekels].
Numbers 7:87	All the oxen for the burnt offering [were] twelve bullocks, the rams twelve, the lambs of the first year twelve, with their meat offering: and the kids of the goats for sin offering twelve.
Numbers 7:88	And all the oxen for the sacrifice of the peace offerings [were] twenty and four bullocks, the rams sixty, the he goats sixty, the lambs of the first year sixty. This [was] the dedication of the altar, after that it was anointed.
Numbers 7:89	And when Moses was gone into the tabernacle of the congregation to speak with him, then he heard the voice of one speaking unto him from off the mercy seat that [was] upon the ark of testimony, from between the two cherubims: and he spake unto him.
Numbers 8:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Numbers 8:3	And Aaron did so; he lighted the lamps thereof over against the candlestick, as the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 8:4	And this work of the candlestick [was of] beaten gold, unto the shaft thereof, unto the flowers thereof, [was] beaten work: according unto the pattern which the LORD had shewed Moses, so he made the candlestick.
Numbers 8:5	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Numbers 8:20	And Moses, and Aaron, and all the congregation of the children of Israel, did to the Levites according unto all that the LORD commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so did the children of Israel unto them.
Numbers 8:21	And the Levites were purified, and they washed their clothes; and Aaron offered them [as] an offering before the LORD; and Aaron made an atonement for them to cleanse them.
Numbers 8:22	And after that went the Levites in to do their service in the tabernacle of the congregation before Aaron, and before his sons: as the LORD had commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so did they unto them.
Numbers 8:23	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Numbers 9:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the first month of the second year after they were come out of the land of Egypt, saying,


Numbers 9:4	And Moses spake unto the children of Israel, that they should keep the passover.
Numbers 9:5	And they kept the passover on the fourteenth day of the first month at even in the wilderness of Sinai: according to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so did the children of Israel.
Numbers 9:6	And there were certain men, who were defiled by the dead body of a man, that they could not keep the passover on that day: and they came before Moses and before Aaron on that day:
Numbers 9:7	And those men said unto him, We [are] defiled by the dead body of a man: wherefore are we kept back, that we may not offer an offering of the LORD in his appointed season among the children of Israel?
Numbers 9:8	And Moses said unto them, 

Numbers 9:9	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Numbers 9:15	And on the day that the tabernacle was reared up the cloud covered the tabernacle, [namely], the tent of the testimony: and at even there was upon the tabernacle as it were the appearance of fire, until the morning.
Numbers 9:16	So it was alway: the cloud covered it [by day], and the appearance of fire by night.
Numbers 9:17	And when the cloud was taken up from the tabernacle, then after that the children of Israel journeyed: and in the place where the cloud abode, there the children of Israel pitched their tents.
Numbers 9:18	At the commandment of the LORD the children of Israel journeyed, and at the commandment of the LORD they pitched: as long as the cloud abode upon the tabernacle they rested in their tents.
Numbers 9:19	And when the cloud tarried long upon the tabernacle many days, then the children of Israel kept the charge of the LORD, and journeyed not.
Numbers 9:20	And [so] it was, when the cloud was a few days upon the tabernacle; according to the commandment of the LORD they abode in their tents, and according to the commandment of the LORD they journeyed.
Numbers 9:21	And [so] it was, when the cloud abode from even unto the morning, and [that] the cloud was taken up in the morning, then they journeyed: whether [it was] by day or by night that the cloud was taken up, they journeyed.
Numbers 9:22	Or [whether it were] two days, or a month, or a year, that the cloud tarried upon the tabernacle, remaining thereon, the children of Israel abode in their tents, and journeyed not: but when it was taken up, they journeyed.
Numbers 9:23	At the commandment of the LORD they rested in the tents, and at the commandment of the LORD they journeyed: they kept the charge of the LORD, at the commandment of the LORD by the hand of Moses.
Numbers 10:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Numbers 10:11	And it came to pass on the twentieth [day] of the second month, in the second year, that the cloud was taken up from off the tabernacle of the testimony.
Numbers 10:12	And the children of Israel took their journeys out of the wilderness of Sinai; and the cloud rested in the wilderness of Paran.
Numbers 10:13	And they first took their journey according to the commandment of the LORD by the hand of Moses.
Numbers 10:14	In the first [place] went the standard of the camp of the children of Judah according to their armies: and over his host [was] Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
Numbers 10:15	And over the host of the tribe of the children of Issachar [was] Nethaneel the son of Zuar.
Numbers 10:16	And over the host of the tribe of the children of Zebulun [was] Eliab the son of Helon.
Numbers 10:17	And the tabernacle was taken down; and the sons of Gershon and the sons of Merari set forward, bearing the tabernacle.
Numbers 10:18	And the standard of the camp of Reuben set forward according to their armies: and over his host [was] Elizur the son of Shedeur.
Numbers 10:19	And over the host of the tribe of the children of Simeon [was] Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
Numbers 10:20	And over the host of the tribe of the children of Gad [was] Eliasaph the son of Deuel.
Numbers 10:21	And the Kohathites set forward, bearing the sanctuary: and [the other] did set up the tabernacle against they came.
Numbers 10:22	And the standard of the camp of the children of Ephraim set forward according to their armies: and over his host [was] Elishama the son of Ammihud.
Numbers 10:23	And over the host of the tribe of the children of Manasseh [was] Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
Numbers 10:24	And over the host of the tribe of the children of Benjamin [was] Abidan the son of Gideoni.
Numbers 10:25	And the standard of the camp of the children of Dan set forward, [which was] the rereward of all the camps throughout their hosts: and over his host [was] Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
Numbers 10:26	And over the host of the tribe of the children of Asher [was] Pagiel the son of Ocran.
Numbers 10:27	And over the host of the tribe of the children of Naphtali [was] Ahira the son of Enan.
Numbers 10:28	Thus [were] the journeyings of the children of Israel according to their armies, when they set forward.
Numbers 10:29	And Moses said unto Hobab, the son of Raguel the Midianite, Moses’ father in law, 

Numbers 10:30	And he said unto him, I will not go; but I will depart to mine own land, and to my kindred.
Numbers 10:31	And he said, 

Numbers 10:33	And they departed from the mount of the LORD three days’ journey: and the ark of the covenant of the LORD went before them in the three days’ journey, to search out a resting place for them.
Numbers 10:34	And the cloud of the LORD [was] upon them by day, when they went out of the camp.
Numbers 10:35	And it came to pass, when the ark set forward, that Moses said, 

Numbers 10:36	And when it rested, he said, Return, O LORD, unto the many thousands of Israel.
Numbers 11:1	And [when] the people complained, it displeased the LORD: and the LORD heard [it]; and his anger was kindled; and the fire of the LORD burnt among them, and consumed [them that were] in the uttermost parts of the camp.
Numbers 11:2	And the people cried unto Moses; and when Moses prayed unto the LORD, the fire was quenched.
Numbers 11:3	And he called the name of the place Taberah: because the fire of the LORD burnt among them.
Numbers 11:4	And the mixt multitude that [was] among them fell a lusting: and the children of Israel also wept again, and said, Who shall give us flesh to eat?
Numbers 11:5	We remember the fish, which we did eat in Egypt freely; the cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlick:
Numbers 11:6	But now our soul [is] dried away: [there is] nothing at all, beside this manna, [before] our eyes.
Numbers 11:7	And the manna [was] as coriander seed, and the colour thereof as the colour of bdellium.
Numbers 11:8	[And] the people went about, and gathered [it], and ground [it] in mills, or beat [it] in a mortar, and baked [it] in pans, and made cakes of it: and the taste of it was as the taste of fresh oil.
Numbers 11:9	And when the dew fell upon the camp in the night, the manna fell upon it.
Numbers 11:10	Then Moses heard the people weep throughout their families, every man in the door of his tent: and the anger of the LORD was kindled greatly; Moses also was displeased.
Numbers 11:11	And Moses said unto the LORD, 

Numbers 11:16	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Numbers 11:21	And Moses said, 

Numbers 11:23	And the LORD said unto Moses, Is the LORD’S hand waxed short? thou shalt see now whether my word shall come to pass unto thee or not.
Numbers 11:24	And Moses went out, and told the people the words of the LORD, and gathered the seventy men of the elders of the people, and set them round about the tabernacle.
Numbers 11:25	And the LORD came down in a cloud, and spake unto him, and took of the spirit that [was] upon him, and gave [it] unto the seventy elders: and it came to pass, [that], when the spirit rested upon them, they prophesied, and did not cease.
Numbers 11:26	But there remained two [of the] men in the camp, the name of the one [was] Eldad, and the name of the other Medad: and the spirit rested upon them; and they [were] of them that were written, but went not out unto the tabernacle: and they prophesied in the camp.
Numbers 11:27	And there ran a young man, and told Moses, and said, Eldad and Medad do prophesy in the camp.
Numbers 11:28	And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Moses, [one] of his young men, answered and said, 

Numbers 11:29	And Moses said unto him, 

Numbers 11:30	And Moses gat him into the camp, he and the elders of Israel.
Numbers 11:31	And there went forth a wind from the LORD, and brought quails from the sea, and let [them] fall by the camp, as it were a day’s journey on this side, and as it were a day’s journey on the other side, round about the camp, and as it were two cubits [high] upon the face of the earth.
Numbers 11:32	And the people stood up all that day, and all [that] night, and all the next day, and they gathered the quails: he that gathered least gathered ten homers: and they spread [them] all abroad for themselves round about the camp.
Numbers 11:33	And while the flesh [was] yet between their teeth, ere it was chewed, the wrath of the LORD was kindled against the people, and the LORD smote the people with a very great plague.
Numbers 11:34	And he called the name of that place Kibrothhattaavah: because there they buried the people that lusted.
Numbers 11:35	[And] the people journeyed from Kibrothhattaavah unto Hazeroth; and abode at Hazeroth.
Numbers 12:1	And Miriam and Aaron spake against Moses because of the Ethiopian woman whom he had married: for he had married an Ethiopian woman.
Numbers 12:2	And they said, Hath the LORD indeed spoken only by Moses? hath he not spoken also by us? And the LORD heard [it].
Numbers 12:3	(Now the man Moses [was] very meek, above all the men which [were] upon the face of the earth.)
Numbers 12:4	And the LORD spake suddenly unto Moses, and unto Aaron, and unto Miriam, 

Numbers 12:5	And the LORD came down in the pillar of the cloud, and stood [in] the door of the tabernacle, and called Aaron and Miriam: and they both came forth.
Numbers 12:6	And he said, Hear now my words: 

Numbers 12:9	And the anger of the LORD was kindled against them; and he departed.
Numbers 12:10	And the cloud departed from off the tabernacle; and, behold, Miriam [became] leprous, [white] as snow: and Aaron looked upon Miriam, and, behold, [she was] leprous.
Numbers 12:11	And Aaron said unto Moses, 

Numbers 12:13	And Moses cried unto the LORD, saying,

Numbers 12:14	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Numbers 12:15	And Miriam was shut out from the camp seven days: and the people journeyed not till Miriam was brought in [again].
Numbers 12:16	And afterward the people removed from Hazeroth, and pitched in the wilderness of Paran.
Numbers 13:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Numbers 13:3	And Moses by the commandment of the LORD sent them from the wilderness of Paran: all those men [were] heads of the children of Israel.
Numbers 13:4	And these [were] their names: of the tribe of Reuben, Shammua the son of Zaccur.
Numbers 13:5	Of the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat the son of Hori.
Numbers 13:6	Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh.
Numbers 13:7	Of the tribe of Issachar, Igal the son of Joseph.
Numbers 13:8	Of the tribe of Ephraim, Oshea the son of Nun.
Numbers 13:9	Of the tribe of Benjamin, Palti the son of Raphu.
Numbers 13:10	Of the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel the son of Sodi.
Numbers 13:11	Of the tribe of Joseph, [namely], of the tribe of Manasseh, Gaddi the son of Susi.
Numbers 13:12	Of the tribe of Dan, Ammiel the son of Gemalli.
Numbers 13:13	Of the tribe of Asher, Sethur the son of Michael.
Numbers 13:14	Of the tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi the son of Vophsi.
Numbers 13:15	Of the tribe of Gad, Geuel the son of Machi.
Numbers 13:16	These [are] the names of the men which Moses sent to spy out the land. And Moses called Oshea the son of Nun Jehoshua.
Numbers 13:17	And Moses sent them to spy out the land of Canaan, and said unto them, 

Numbers 13:21	So they went up, and searched the land from the wilderness of Zin unto Rehob, as men come to Hamath.
Numbers 13:22	And they ascended by the south, and came unto Hebron; where Ahiman, Sheshai, and Talmai, the children of Anak, [were]. (Now Hebron was built seven years before Zoan in Egypt.)
Numbers 13:23	And they came unto the brook of Eshcol, and cut down from thence a branch with one cluster of grapes, and they bare it between two upon a staff; and [they brought] of the pomegranates, and of the figs.
Numbers 13:24	The place was called the brook Eshcol, because of the cluster of grapes which the children of Israel cut down from thence.
Numbers 13:25	And they returned from searching of the land after forty days.
Numbers 13:26	And they went and came to Moses, and to Aaron, and to all the congregation of the children of Israel, unto the wilderness of Paran, to Kadesh; and brought back word unto them, and unto all the congregation, and shewed them the fruit of the land.
Numbers 13:27	And they told him, and said, We came unto the land whither thou sentest us, and surely it floweth with milk and honey; and this [is] the fruit of it.
Numbers 13:28	Nevertheless the people [be] strong that dwell in the land, and the cities [are] walled, [and] very great: and moreover we saw the children of Anak there.
Numbers 13:29	The Amalekites dwell in the land of the south: and the Hittites, and the Jebusites, and the Amorites, dwell in the mountains: and the Canaanites dwell by the sea, and by the coast of Jordan.
Numbers 13:30	And Caleb stilled the people before Moses, and said, Let us go up at once, and possess it; for we are well able to overcome it.
Numbers 13:31	But the men that went up with him said, We be not able to go up against the people; for they [are] stronger than we.
Numbers 13:32	And they brought up an evil report of the land which they had searched unto the children of Israel, saying, The land, through which we have gone to search it, [is] a land that eateth up the inhabitants thereof; and all the people that we saw in it [are] men of a great stature.
Numbers 13:33	And there we saw the giants, the sons of Anak, [which come] of the giants: and we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight.
Numbers 14:1	And all the congregation lifted up their voice, and cried; and the people wept that night.
Numbers 14:2	And all the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron: and the whole congregation said unto them, Would God that we had died in the land of Egypt! or would God we had died in this wilderness!
Numbers 14:3	And wherefore hath the LORD brought us unto this land, to fall by the sword, that our wives and our children should be a prey? were it not better for us to return into Egypt?
Numbers 14:4	And they said one to another, Let us make a captain, and let us return into Egypt.
Numbers 14:5	Then Moses and Aaron fell on their faces before all the assembly of the congregation of the children of Israel.
Numbers 14:6	And Joshua the son of Nun, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, [which were] of them that searched the land, rent their clothes:
Numbers 14:7	And they spake unto all the company of the children of Israel, saying, The land, which we passed through to search it, [is] an exceeding good land.
Numbers 14:8	If the LORD delight in us, then he will bring us into this land, and give it us; a land which floweth with milk and honey.
Numbers 14:9	Only rebel not ye against the LORD, neither fear ye the people of the land; for they [are] bread for us: their defence is departed from them, and the LORD [is] with us: fear them not.
Numbers 14:10	But all the congregation bade stone them with stones. And the glory of the LORD appeared in the tabernacle of the congregation before all the children of Israel.
Numbers 14:11	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Numbers 14:13	And Moses said unto the LORD, 

Numbers 14:20	And the LORD said, 

Numbers 14:26	And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying,


Numbers 14:36	And the men, which Moses sent to search the land, who returned, and made all the congregation to murmur against him, by bringing up a slander upon the land,
Numbers 14:37	Even those men that did bring up the evil report upon the land, died by the plague before the LORD.
Numbers 14:38	But Joshua the son of Nun, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, [which were] of the men that went to search the land, lived [still].
Numbers 14:39	And Moses told these sayings unto all the children of Israel: and the people mourned greatly.
Numbers 14:40	And they rose up early in the morning, and gat them up into the top of the mountain, saying, Lo, we [be here], and will go up unto the place which the LORD hath promised: for we have sinned.
Numbers 14:41	And Moses said, Wherefore now do ye transgress the commandment of the LORD? but it shall not prosper.
Numbers 14:42	Go not up, for the LORD [is] not among you; that ye be not smitten before your enemies.
Numbers 14:43	For the Amalekites and the Canaanites [are] there before you, and ye shall fall by the sword: because ye are turned away from the LORD, therefore the LORD will not be with you.
Numbers 14:44	But they presumed to go up unto the hill top: nevertheless the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and Moses, departed not out of the camp.
Numbers 14:45	Then the Amalekites came down, and the Canaanites which dwelt in that hill, and smote them, and discomfited them, [even] unto Hormah.
Numbers 15:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Numbers 15:17	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Numbers 15:32	And while the children of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a man that gathered sticks upon the sabbath day.
Numbers 15:33	And they that found him gathering sticks brought him unto Moses and Aaron, and unto all the congregation.
Numbers 15:34	And they put him in ward, because it was not declared what should be done to him.
Numbers 15:35	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Numbers 15:36	And all the congregation brought him without the camp, and stoned him with stones, and he died; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 15:37	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Numbers 16:1	Now Korah, the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, and Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, and On, the son of Peleth, sons of Reuben, took [men]:
Numbers 16:2	And they rose up before Moses, with certain of the children of Israel, two hundred and fifty princes of the assembly, famous in the congregation, men of renown:
Numbers 16:3	And they gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron, and said unto them, [Ye take] too much upon you, seeing all the congregation [are] holy, every one of them, and the LORD [is] among them: wherefore then lift ye up yourselves above the congregation of the LORD?
Numbers 16:4	And when Moses heard [it], he fell upon his face:
Numbers 16:5	And he spake unto Korah and unto all his company, saying, 

Numbers 16:8	And Moses said unto Korah, 

Numbers 16:12	And Moses sent to call Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab: which said, We will not come up:
Numbers 16:13	[Is it] a small thing that thou hast brought us up out of a land that floweth with milk and honey, to kill us in the wilderness, except thou make thyself altogether a prince over us?
Numbers 16:14	Moreover thou hast not brought us into a land that floweth with milk and honey, or given us inheritance of fields and vineyards: wilt thou put out the eyes of these men? we will not come up.
Numbers 16:15	And Moses was very wroth, and said unto the LORD, 

Numbers 16:16	And Moses said unto Korah, 

Numbers 16:18	And they took every man his censer, and put fire in them, and laid incense thereon, and stood in the door of the tabernacle of the congregation with Moses and Aaron.
Numbers 16:19	And Korah gathered all the congregation against them unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation: and the glory of the LORD appeared unto all the congregation.
Numbers 16:20	And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying,


Numbers 16:22	And they fell upon their faces, and said, 

Numbers 16:23	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Numbers 16:25	And Moses rose up and went unto Dathan and Abiram; and the elders of Israel followed him.
Numbers 16:26	And he spake unto the congregation, saying, 

Numbers 16:27	So they gat up from the tabernacle of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram, on every side: and Dathan and Abiram came out, and stood in the door of their tents, and their wives, and their sons, and their little children.
Numbers 16:28	And Moses said, 

Numbers 16:31	And it came to pass, as he had made an end of speaking all these words, that the ground clave asunder that [was] under them:
Numbers 16:32	And the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed them up, and their houses, and all the men that [appertained] unto Korah, and all [their] goods.
Numbers 16:33	They, and all that [appertained] to them, went down alive into the pit, and the earth closed upon them: and they perished from among the congregation.
Numbers 16:34	And all Israel that [were] round about them fled at the cry of them: for they said, Lest the earth swallow us up [also].
Numbers 16:35	And there came out a fire from the LORD, and consumed the two hundred and fifty men that offered incense.
Numbers 16:36	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Numbers 16:39	And Eleazar the priest took the brasen censers, wherewith they that were burnt had offered; and they were made broad [plates for] a covering of the altar:
Numbers 16:40	[To be] a memorial unto the children of Israel, that no stranger, which [is] not of the seed of Aaron, come near to offer incense before the LORD; that he be not as Korah, and as his company: as the LORD said to him by the hand of Moses.
Numbers 16:41	But on the morrow all the congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron, saying, Ye have killed the people of the LORD.
Numbers 16:42	And it came to pass, when the congregation was gathered against Moses and against Aaron, that they looked toward the tabernacle of the congregation: and, behold, the cloud covered it, and the glory of the LORD appeared.
Numbers 16:43	And Moses and Aaron came before the tabernacle of the congregation.
Numbers 16:44	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

 And they fell upon their faces.
Numbers 16:46	And Moses said unto Aaron, 

Numbers 16:47	And Aaron took as Moses commanded, and ran into the midst of the congregation; and, behold, the plague was begun among the people: and he put on incense, and made an atonement for the people.
Numbers 16:48	And he stood between the dead and the living; and the plague was stayed.
Numbers 16:49	Now they that died in the plague were fourteen thousand and seven hundred, beside them that died about the matter of Korah.
Numbers 16:50	And Aaron returned unto Moses unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation: and the plague was stayed.
Numbers 17:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

Numbers 17:6	And Moses spake unto the children of Israel, and every one of their princes gave him a rod apiece, for each prince one, according to their fathers’ houses, [even] twelve rods: and the rod of Aaron [was] among their rods.
Numbers 17:7	And Moses laid up the rods before the LORD in the tabernacle of witness.
Numbers 17:8	And it came to pass, that on the morrow Moses went into the tabernacle of witness; and, behold, the rod of Aaron for the house of Levi was budded, and brought forth buds, and bloomed blossoms, and yielded almonds.
Numbers 17:9	And Moses brought out all the rods from before the LORD unto all the children of Israel: and they looked, and took every man his rod.
Numbers 17:10	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Numbers 17:11	And Moses did [so]: as the LORD commanded him, so did he.
Numbers 17:12	And the children of Israel spake unto Moses, saying, Behold, we die, we perish, we all perish.
Numbers 17:13	Whosoever cometh any thing near unto the tabernacle of the LORD shall die: shall we be consumed with dying?
Numbers 18:1	And the LORD said unto Aaron, 

Numbers 18:8	And the LORD spake unto Aaron, 

Numbers 18:20	And the LORD spake unto Aaron, 

Numbers 20:1	Then came the children of Israel, [even] the whole congregation, into the desert of Zin in the first month: and the people abode in Kadesh; and Miriam died there, and was buried there.
Numbers 20:2	And there was no water for the congregation: and they gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron.
Numbers 20:3	And the people chode with Moses, and spake, saying, Would God that we had died when our brethren died before the LORD!
Numbers 20:4	And why have ye brought up the congregation of the LORD into this wilderness, that we and our cattle should die there?
Numbers 20:5	And wherefore have ye made us to come up out of Egypt, to bring us in unto this evil place? it [is] no place of seed, or of figs, or of vines, or of pomegranates; neither [is] there any water to drink.
Numbers 20:6	And Moses and Aaron went from the presence of the assembly unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and they fell upon their faces: and the glory of the LORD appeared unto them.
Numbers 20:7	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,


Numbers 20:9	And Moses took the rod from before the LORD, as he commanded him.
Numbers 20:10	And Moses and Aaron gathered the congregation together before the rock, and he said unto them, 

Numbers 20:11	And Moses lifted up his hand, and with his rod he smote the rock twice: and the water came out abundantly, and the congregation drank, and their beasts [also].
Numbers 20:12	And the LORD spake unto Moses and Aaron, 

Numbers 20:13	This [is] the water of Meribah; because the children of Israel strove with the LORD, and he was sanctified in them.
Numbers 20:14	And Moses sent messengers from Kadesh unto the king of Edom, Thus saith thy brother Israel, Thou knowest all the travail that hath befallen us:
Numbers 20:15	How our fathers went down into Egypt, and we have dwelt in Egypt a long time; and the Egyptians vexed us, and our fathers:
Numbers 20:16	And when we cried unto the LORD, he heard our voice, and sent an angel, and hath brought us forth out of Egypt: and, behold, we [are] in Kadesh, a city in the uttermost of thy border:
Numbers 20:17	Let us pass, I pray thee, through thy country: we will not pass through the fields, or through the vineyards, neither will we drink [of] the water of the wells: we will go by the king’s [high] way, we will not turn to the right hand nor to the left, until we have passed thy borders.
Numbers 20:18	And Edom said unto him, Thou shalt not pass by me, lest I come out against thee with the sword.
Numbers 20:19	And the children of Israel said unto him, We will go by the high way: and if I and my cattle drink of thy water, then I will pay for it: I will only, without [doing] any thing [else], go through on my feet.
Numbers 20:20	And he said, Thou shalt not go through. And Edom came out against him with much people, and with a strong hand.
Numbers 20:21	Thus Edom refused to give Israel passage through his border: wherefore Israel turned away from him.
Numbers 20:22	And the children of Israel, [even] the whole congregation, journeyed from Kadesh, and came unto mount Hor.
Numbers 20:23	And the LORD spake unto Moses and Aaron in mount Hor, by the coast of the land of Edom, saying,


Numbers 20:27	And Moses did as the LORD commanded: and they went up into mount Hor in the sight of all the congregation.
Numbers 20:28	And Moses stripped Aaron of his garments, and put them upon Eleazar his son; and Aaron died there in the top of the mount: and Moses and Eleazar came down from the mount.
Numbers 20:29	And when all the congregation saw that Aaron was dead, they mourned for Aaron thirty days, [even] all the house of Israel.
Numbers 21:1	And [when] king Arad the Canaanite, which dwelt in the south, heard tell that Israel came by the way of the spies; then he fought against Israel, and took [some] of them prisoners.
Numbers 21:2	And Israel vowed a vow unto the LORD, and said, If thou wilt indeed deliver this people into my hand, then I will utterly destroy their cities.
Numbers 21:3	And the LORD hearkened to the voice of Israel, and delivered up the Canaanites; and they utterly destroyed them and their cities: and he called the name of the place Hormah.
Numbers 21:4	And they journeyed from mount Hor by the way of the Red sea, to compass the land of Edom: and the soul of the people was much discouraged because of the way.
Numbers 21:5	And the people spake against God, and against Moses, Wherefore have ye brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness? for [there is] no bread, neither [is there any] water; and our soul loatheth this light bread.
Numbers 21:6	And the LORD sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people; and much people of Israel died.
Numbers 21:7	Therefore the people came to Moses, and said, We have sinned, for we have spoken against the LORD, and against thee; pray unto the LORD, that he take away the serpents from us. And Moses prayed for the people.
Numbers 21:8	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Numbers 21:9	And Moses made a serpent of brass, and put it upon a pole, and it came to pass, that if a serpent had bitten any man, when he beheld the serpent of brass, he lived.
Numbers 21:10	And the children of Israel set forward, and pitched in Oboth.
Numbers 21:11	And they journeyed from Oboth, and pitched at Ijeabarim, in the wilderness which [is] before Moab, toward the sunrising.
Numbers 21:12	From thence they removed, and pitched in the valley of Zared.
Numbers 21:13	From thence they removed, and pitched on the other side of Arnon, which [is] in the wilderness that cometh out of the coasts of the Amorites: for Arnon [is] the border of Moab, between Moab and the Amorites.
Numbers 21:14	Wherefore it is said in the book of the wars of the LORD, What he did in the Red sea, and in the brooks of Arnon,
Numbers 21:15	And at the stream of the brooks that goeth down to the dwelling of Ar, and lieth upon the border of Moab.
Numbers 21:16	And from thence [they went] to Beer: that [is] the well whereof the LORD spake unto Moses, 

Numbers 21:17	Then Israel sang this song, Spring up, O well; sing ye unto it:
Numbers 21:18	The princes digged the well, the nobles of the people digged it, by [the direction of] the lawgiver, with their staves. And from the wilderness [they went] to Mattanah:
Numbers 21:19	And from Mattanah to Nahaliel: and from Nahaliel to Bamoth:
Numbers 21:20	And from Bamoth [in] the valley, that [is] in the country of Moab, to the top of Pisgah, which looketh toward Jeshimon.
Numbers 21:21	And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, saying,
Numbers 21:22	Let me pass through thy land: we will not turn into the fields, or into the vineyards; we will not drink [of] the waters of the well: [but] we will go along by the king’s [high] way, until we be past thy borders.
Numbers 21:23	And Sihon would not suffer Israel to pass through his border: but Sihon gathered all his people together, and went out against Israel into the wilderness: and he came to Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
Numbers 21:24	And Israel smote him with the edge of the sword, and possessed his land from Arnon unto Jabbok, even unto the children of Ammon: for the border of the children of Ammon [was] strong.
Numbers 21:25	And Israel took all these cities: and Israel dwelt in all the cities of the Amorites, in Heshbon, and in all the villages thereof.
Numbers 21:26	For Heshbon [was] the city of Sihon the king of the Amorites, who had fought against the former king of Moab, and taken all his land out of his hand, even unto Arnon.
Numbers 21:27	Wherefore they that speak in proverbs say, Come into Heshbon, let the city of Sihon be built and prepared:
Numbers 21:28	For there is a fire gone out of Heshbon, a flame from the city of Sihon: it hath consumed Ar of Moab, [and] the lords of the high places of Arnon.
Numbers 21:29	Woe to thee, Moab! thou art undone, O people of Chemosh: he hath given his sons that escaped, and his daughters, into captivity unto Sihon king of the Amorites.
Numbers 21:30	We have shot at them; Heshbon is perished even unto Dibon, and we have laid them waste even unto Nophah, which [reacheth] unto Medeba.
Numbers 21:31	Thus Israel dwelt in the land of the Amorites.
Numbers 21:32	And Moses sent to spy out Jaazer, and they took the villages thereof, and drove out the Amorites that [were] there.
Numbers 21:33	And they turned and went up by the way of Bashan: and Og the king of Bashan went out against them, he, and all his people, to the battle at Edrei.
Numbers 21:34	And the LORD said unto Moses, 

Numbers 21:35	So they smote him, and his sons, and all his people, until there was none left him alive: and they possessed his land.
Numbers 22:1	And the children of Israel set forward, and pitched in the plains of Moab on this side Jordan [by] Jericho.
Numbers 22:2	And Balak the son of Zippor saw all that Israel had done to the Amorites.
Numbers 22:3	And Moab was sore afraid of the people, because they [were] many: and Moab was distressed because of the children of Israel.
Numbers 22:4	And Moab said unto the elders of Midian, Now shall this company lick up all [that are] round about us, as the ox licketh up the grass of the field. And Balak the son of Zippor [was] king of the Moabites at that time.
Numbers 22:5	He sent messengers therefore unto Balaam the son of Beor to Pethor, which [is] by the river of the land of the children of his people, to call him, saying, Behold, there is a people come out from Egypt: behold, they cover the face of the earth, and they abide over against me:
Numbers 22:6	Come now therefore, I pray thee, curse me this people; for they [are] too mighty for me: peradventure I shall prevail, [that] we may smite them, and [that] I may drive them out of the land: for I wot that he whom thou blessest [is] blessed, and he whom thou cursest is cursed.
Numbers 22:7	And the elders of Moab and the elders of Midian departed with the rewards of divination in their hand; and they came unto Balaam, and spake unto him the words of Balak.
Numbers 22:8	And he said unto them, Lodge here this night, and I will bring you word again, as the LORD shall speak unto me: and the princes of Moab abode with Balaam.
Numbers 22:9	And God came unto Balaam, and said, What men [are] these with thee?
Numbers 22:10	And Balaam said unto God, Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, hath sent unto me, [saying],
Numbers 22:11	Behold, [there is] a people come out of Egypt, which covereth the face of the earth: come now, curse me them; peradventure I shall be able to overcome them, and drive them out.
Numbers 22:12	And God said unto Balaam, Thou shalt not go with them; thou shalt not curse the people: for they [are] blessed.
Numbers 22:13	And Balaam rose up in the morning, and said unto the princes of Balak, Get you into your land: for the LORD refuseth to give me leave to go with you.
Numbers 22:14	And the princes of Moab rose up, and they went unto Balak, and said, Balaam refuseth to come with us.
Numbers 22:15	And Balak sent yet again princes, more, and more honourable than they.
Numbers 22:16	And they came to Balaam, and said to him, Thus saith Balak the son of Zippor, Let nothing, I pray thee, hinder thee from coming unto me:
Numbers 22:17	For I will promote thee unto very great honour, and I will do whatsoever thou sayest unto me: come therefore, I pray thee, curse me this people.
Numbers 22:18	And Balaam answered and said unto the servants of Balak, If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold, I cannot go beyond the word of the LORD my God, to do less or more.
Numbers 22:19	Now therefore, I pray you, tarry ye also here this night, that I may know what the LORD will say unto me more.
Numbers 22:20	And God came unto Balaam at night, and said unto him, If the men come to call thee, rise up, [and] go with them; but yet the word which I shall say unto thee, that shalt thou do.
Numbers 22:21	And Balaam rose up in the morning, and saddled his ass, and went with the princes of Moab.
Numbers 22:22	And God’s anger was kindled because he went: and the angel of the LORD stood in the way for an adversary against him. Now he was riding upon his ass, and his two servants [were] with him.
Numbers 22:23	And the ass saw the angel of the LORD standing in the way, and his sword drawn in his hand: and the ass turned aside out of the way, and went into the field: and Balaam smote the ass, to turn her into the way.
Numbers 22:24	But the angel of the LORD stood in a path of the vineyards, a wall [being] on this side, and a wall on that side.
Numbers 22:25	And when the ass saw the angel of the LORD, she thrust herself unto the wall, and crushed Balaam’s foot against the wall: and he smote her again.
Numbers 22:26	And the angel of the LORD went further, and stood in a narrow place, where [was] no way to turn either to the right hand or to the left.
Numbers 22:27	And when the ass saw the angel of the LORD, she fell down under Balaam: and Balaam’s anger was kindled, and he smote the ass with a staff.
Numbers 22:28	And the LORD opened the mouth of the ass, and she said unto Balaam, What have I done unto thee, that thou hast smitten me these three times?
Numbers 22:29	And Balaam said unto the ass, Because thou hast mocked me: I would there were a sword in mine hand, for now would I kill thee.
Numbers 22:30	And the ass said unto Balaam, [Am] not I thine ass, upon which thou hast ridden ever since [I was] thine unto this day? was I ever wont to do so unto thee? And he said, Nay.
Numbers 22:31	Then the LORD opened the eyes of Balaam, and he saw the angel of the LORD standing in the way, and his sword drawn in his hand: and he bowed down his head, and fell flat on his face.
Numbers 22:32	And the angel of the LORD said unto him, Wherefore hast thou smitten thine ass these three times? behold, I went out to withstand thee, because [thy] way is perverse before me:
Numbers 22:33	And the ass saw me, and turned from me these three times: unless she had turned from me, surely now also I had slain thee, and saved her alive.
Numbers 22:34	And Balaam said unto the angel of the LORD, I have sinned; for I knew not that thou stoodest in the way against me: now therefore, if it displease thee, I will get me back again.
Numbers 22:35	And the angel of the LORD said unto Balaam, Go with the men: but only the word that I shall speak unto thee, that thou shalt speak. So Balaam went with the princes of Balak.
Numbers 22:36	And when Balak heard that Balaam was come, he went out to meet him unto a city of Moab, which [is] in the border of Arnon, which [is] in the utmost coast.
Numbers 22:37	And Balak said unto Balaam, Did I not earnestly send unto thee to call thee? wherefore camest thou not unto me? am I not able indeed to promote thee to honour?
Numbers 22:38	And Balaam said unto Balak, Lo, I am come unto thee: have I now any power at all to say any thing? the word that God putteth in my mouth, that shall I speak.
Numbers 22:39	And Balaam went with Balak, and they came unto Kirjathhuzoth.
Numbers 22:40	And Balak offered oxen and sheep, and sent to Balaam, and to the princes that [were] with him.
Numbers 22:41	And it came to pass on the morrow, that Balak took Balaam, and brought him up into the high places of Baal, that thence he might see the utmost [part] of the people.
Numbers 23:1	And Balaam said unto Balak, Build me here seven altars, and prepare me here seven oxen and seven rams.
Numbers 23:2	And Balak did as Balaam had spoken; and Balak and Balaam offered on [every] altar a bullock and a ram.
Numbers 23:3	And Balaam said unto Balak, Stand by thy burnt offering, and I will go: peradventure the LORD will come to meet me: and whatsoever he sheweth me I will tell thee. And he went to an high place.
Numbers 23:4	And God met Balaam: and he said unto him, I have prepared seven altars, and I have offered upon [every] altar a bullock and a ram.
Numbers 23:5	And the LORD put a word in Balaam’s mouth, and said, Return unto Balak, and thus thou shalt speak.
Numbers 23:6	And he returned unto him, and, lo, he stood by his burnt sacrifice, he, and all the princes of Moab.
Numbers 23:7	And he took up his parable, and said, Balak the king of Moab hath brought me from Aram, out of the mountains of the east, [saying], Come, curse me Jacob, and come, defy Israel.
Numbers 23:8	How shall I curse, whom God hath not cursed? or how shall I defy, [whom] the LORD hath not defied?
Numbers 23:9	For from the top of the rocks I see him, and from the hills I behold him: lo, the people shall dwell alone, and shall not be reckoned among the nations.
Numbers 23:10	Who can count the dust of Jacob, and the number of the fourth [part] of Israel? Let me die the death of the righteous, and let my last end be like his!
Numbers 23:11	And Balak said unto Balaam, What hast thou done unto me? I took thee to curse mine enemies, and, behold, thou hast blessed [them] altogether.
Numbers 23:12	And he answered and said, Must I not take heed to speak that which the LORD hath put in my mouth?
Numbers 23:13	And Balak said unto him, Come, I pray thee, with me unto another place, from whence thou mayest see them: thou shalt see but the utmost part of them, and shalt not see them all: and curse me them from thence.
Numbers 23:14	And he brought him into the field of Zophim, to the top of Pisgah, and built seven altars, and offered a bullock and a ram on [every] altar.
Numbers 23:15	And he said unto Balak, Stand here by thy burnt offering, while I meet [the LORD] yonder.
Numbers 23:16	And the LORD met Balaam, and put a word in his mouth, and said, Go again unto Balak, and say thus.
Numbers 23:17	And when he came to him, behold, he stood by his burnt offering, and the princes of Moab with him. And Balak said unto him, What hath the LORD spoken?
Numbers 23:18	And he took up his parable, and said, Rise up, Balak, and hear; hearken unto me, thou son of Zippor:
Numbers 23:19	God [is] not a man, that he should lie; neither the son of man, that he should repent: hath he said, and shall he not do [it]? or hath he spoken, and shall he not make it good?
Numbers 23:20	Behold, I have received [commandment] to bless: and he hath blessed; and I cannot reverse it.
Numbers 23:21	He hath not beheld iniquity in Jacob, neither hath he seen perverseness in Israel: the LORD his God [is] with him, and the shout of a king [is] among them.
Numbers 23:22	God brought them out of Egypt; he hath as it were the strength of an unicorn.
Numbers 23:23	Surely [there is] no enchantment against Jacob, neither [is there] any divination against Israel: according to this time it shall be said of Jacob and of Israel, What hath God wrought!
Numbers 23:24	Behold, the people shall rise up as a great lion, and lift up himself as a young lion: he shall not lie down until he eat [of] the prey, and drink the blood of the slain.
Numbers 23:25	And Balak said unto Balaam, Neither curse them at all, nor bless them at all.
Numbers 23:26	But Balaam answered and said unto Balak, Told not I thee, saying, All that the LORD speaketh, that I must do?
Numbers 23:27	And Balak said unto Balaam, Come, I pray thee, I will bring thee unto another place; peradventure it will please God that thou mayest curse me them from thence.
Numbers 23:28	And Balak brought Balaam unto the top of Peor, that looketh toward Jeshimon.
Numbers 23:29	And Balaam said unto Balak, Build me here seven altars, and prepare me here seven bullocks and seven rams.
Numbers 23:30	And Balak did as Balaam had said, and offered a bullock and a ram on [every] altar.
Numbers 24:1	And when Balaam saw that it pleased the LORD to bless Israel, he went not, as at other times, to seek for enchantments, but he set his face toward the wilderness.
Numbers 24:2	And Balaam lifted up his eyes, and he saw Israel abiding [in his tents] according to their tribes; and the spirit of God came upon him.
Numbers 24:3	And he took up his parable, and said, Balaam the son of Beor hath said, and the man whose eyes are open hath said:
Numbers 24:4	He hath said, which heard the words of God, which saw the vision of the Almighty, falling [into a trance], but having his eyes open:
Numbers 24:5	How goodly are thy tents, O Jacob, [and] thy tabernacles, O Israel!
Numbers 24:6	As the valleys are they spread forth, as gardens by the river’s side, as the trees of lign aloes which the LORD hath planted, [and] as cedar trees beside the waters.
Numbers 24:7	He shall pour the water out of his buckets, and his seed [shall be] in many waters, and his king shall be higher than Agag, and his kingdom shall be exalted.
Numbers 24:8	God brought him forth out of Egypt; he hath as it were the strength of an unicorn: he shall eat up the nations his enemies, and shall break their bones, and pierce [them] through with his arrows.
Numbers 24:9	He couched, he lay down as a lion, and as a great lion: who shall stir him up? Blessed [is] he that blesseth thee, and cursed [is] he that curseth thee.
Numbers 24:10	And Balak’s anger was kindled against Balaam, and he smote his hands together: and Balak said unto Balaam, I called thee to curse mine enemies, and, behold, thou hast altogether blessed [them] these three times.
Numbers 24:11	Therefore now flee thou to thy place: I thought to promote thee unto great honour; but, lo, the LORD hath kept thee back from honour.
Numbers 24:12	And Balaam said unto Balak, Spake I not also to thy messengers which thou sentest unto me, saying,
Numbers 24:13	If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold, I cannot go beyond the commandment of the LORD, to do [either] good or bad of mine own mind; [but] what the LORD saith, that will I speak?
Numbers 24:14	And now, behold, I go unto my people: come [therefore, and] I will advertise thee what this people shall do to thy people in the latter days.
Numbers 24:15	And he took up his parable, and said, Balaam the son of Beor hath said, and the man whose eyes are open hath said:
Numbers 24:16	He hath said, which heard the words of God, and knew the knowledge of the most High, [which] saw the vision of the Almighty, falling [into a trance], but having his eyes open:
Numbers 24:17	I shall see him, but not now: I shall behold him, but not nigh: there shall come a Star out of Jacob, and a Sceptre shall rise out of Israel, and shall smite the corners of Moab, and destroy all the children of Sheth.
Numbers 24:18	And Edom shall be a possession, Seir also shall be a possession for his enemies; and Israel shall do valiantly.
Numbers 24:19	Out of Jacob shall come he that shall have dominion, and shall destroy him that remaineth of the city.
Numbers 24:20	And when he looked on Amalek, he took up his parable, and said, Amalek [was] the first of the nations; but his latter end [shall be] that he perish for ever.
Numbers 24:21	And he looked on the Kenites, and took up his parable, and said, Strong is thy dwellingplace, and thou puttest thy nest in a rock.
Numbers 24:22	Nevertheless the Kenite shall be wasted, until Asshur shall carry thee away captive.
Numbers 24:23	And he took up his parable, and said, Alas, who shall live when God doeth this!
Numbers 24:24	And ships [shall come] from the coast of Chittim, and shall afflict Asshur, and shall afflict Eber, and he also shall perish for ever.
Numbers 24:25	And Balaam rose up, and went and returned to his place: and Balak also went his way.
Numbers 25:1	And Israel abode in Shittim, and the people began to commit whoredom with the daughters of Moab.
Numbers 25:2	And they called the people unto the sacrifices of their gods: and the people did eat, and bowed down to their gods.
Numbers 25:3	And Israel joined himself unto Baalpeor: and the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel.
Numbers 25:4	And the LORD said unto Moses, Take all the heads of the people, and hang them up before the LORD against the sun, that the fierce anger of the LORD may be turned away from Israel.
Numbers 25:5	And Moses said unto the judges of Israel, Slay ye every one his men that were joined unto Baalpeor.
Numbers 25:6	And, behold, one of the children of Israel came and brought unto his brethren a Midianitish woman in the sight of Moses, and in the sight of all the congregation of the children of Israel, who [were] weeping [before] the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
Numbers 25:7	And when Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, saw [it], he rose up from among the congregation, and took a javelin in his hand;
Numbers 25:8	And he went after the man of Israel into the tent, and thrust both of them through, the man of Israel, and the woman through her belly. So the plague was stayed from the children of Israel.
Numbers 25:9	And those that died in the plague were twenty and four thousand.
Numbers 25:10	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 25:11	Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, hath turned my wrath away from the children of Israel, while he was zealous for my sake among them, that I consumed not the children of Israel in my jealousy.
Numbers 25:12	Wherefore say, Behold, I give unto him my covenant of peace:
Numbers 25:13	And he shall have it, and his seed after him, [even] the covenant of an everlasting priesthood; because he was zealous for his God, and made an atonement for the children of Israel.
Numbers 25:14	Now the name of the Israelite that was slain, [even] that was slain with the Midianitish woman, [was] Zimri, the son of Salu, a prince of a chief house among the Simeonites.
Numbers 25:15	And the name of the Midianitish woman that was slain [was] Cozbi, the daughter of Zur; he [was] head over a people, [and] of a chief house in Midian.
Numbers 25:16	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 25:17	Vex the Midianites, and smite them:
Numbers 25:18	For they vex you with their wiles, wherewith they have beguiled you in the matter of Peor, and in the matter of Cozbi, the daughter of a prince of Midian, their sister, which was slain in the day of the plague for Peor’s sake.
Numbers 26:1	And it came to pass after the plague, that the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, saying,
Numbers 26:2	Take the sum of all the congregation of the children of Israel, from twenty years old and upward, throughout their fathers’ house, all that are able to go to war in Israel.
Numbers 26:3	And Moses and Eleazar the priest spake with them in the plains of Moab by Jordan [near] Jericho, saying,
Numbers 26:4	[Take the sum of the people], from twenty years old and upward; as the LORD commanded Moses and the children of Israel, which went forth out of the land of Egypt.
Numbers 26:5	Reuben, the eldest son of Israel: the children of Reuben; Hanoch, [of whom cometh] the family of the Hanochites: of Pallu, the family of the Palluites:
Numbers 26:6	Of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites: of Carmi, the family of the Carmites.
Numbers 26:7	These [are] the families of the Reubenites: and they that were numbered of them were forty and three thousand and seven hundred and thirty.
Numbers 26:8	And the sons of Pallu; Eliab.
Numbers 26:9	And the sons of Eliab; Nemuel, and Dathan, and Abiram. This [is that] Dathan and Abiram, [which were] famous in the congregation, who strove against Moses and against Aaron in the company of Korah, when they strove against the LORD:
Numbers 26:10	And the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed them up together with Korah, when that company died, what time the fire devoured two hundred and fifty men: and they became a sign.
Numbers 26:11	Notwithstanding the children of Korah died not.
Numbers 26:12	The sons of Simeon after their families: of Nemuel, the family of the Nemuelites: of Jamin, the family of the Jaminites: of Jachin, the family of the Jachinites:
Numbers 26:13	Of Zerah, the family of the Zarhites: of Shaul, the family of the Shaulites.
Numbers 26:14	These [are] the families of the Simeonites, twenty and two thousand and two hundred.
Numbers 26:15	The children of Gad after their families: of Zephon, the family of the Zephonites: of Haggi, the family of the Haggites: of Shuni, the family of the Shunites:
Numbers 26:16	Of Ozni, the family of the Oznites: of Eri, the family of the Erites:
Numbers 26:17	Of Arod, the family of the Arodites: of Areli, the family of the Arelites.
Numbers 26:18	These [are] the families of the children of Gad according to those that were numbered of them, forty thousand and five hundred.
Numbers 26:19	The sons of Judah [were] Er and Onan: and Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan.
Numbers 26:20	And the sons of Judah after their families were; of Shelah, the family of the Shelanites: of Pharez, the family of the Pharzites: of Zerah, the family of the Zarhites.
Numbers 26:21	And the sons of Pharez were; of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites: of Hamul, the family of the Hamulites.
Numbers 26:22	These [are] the families of Judah according to those that were numbered of them, threescore and sixteen thousand and five hundred.
Numbers 26:23	[Of] the sons of Issachar after their families: [of] Tola, the family of the Tolaites: of Pua, the family of the Punites:
Numbers 26:24	Of Jashub, the family of the Jashubites: of Shimron, the family of the Shimronites.
Numbers 26:25	These [are] the families of Issachar according to those that were numbered of them, threescore and four thousand and three hundred.
Numbers 26:26	[Of] the sons of Zebulun after their families: of Sered, the family of the Sardites: of Elon, the family of the Elonites: of Jahleel, the family of the Jahleelites.
Numbers 26:27	These [are] the families of the Zebulunites according to those that were numbered of them, threescore thousand and five hundred.
Numbers 26:28	The sons of Joseph after their families [were] Manasseh and Ephraim.
Numbers 26:29	Of the sons of Manasseh: of Machir, the family of the Machirites: and Machir begat Gilead: of Gilead [come] the family of the Gileadites.
Numbers 26:30	These [are] the sons of Gilead: [of] Jeezer, the family of the Jeezerites: of Helek, the family of the Helekites:
Numbers 26:31	And [of] Asriel, the family of the Asrielites: and [of] Shechem, the family of the Shechemites:
Numbers 26:32	And [of] Shemida, the family of the Shemidaites: and [of] Hepher, the family of the Hepherites.
Numbers 26:33	And Zelophehad the son of Hepher had no sons, but daughters: and the names of the daughters of Zelophehad [were] Mahlah, and Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.
Numbers 26:34	These [are] the families of Manasseh, and those that were numbered of them, fifty and two thousand and seven hundred.
Numbers 26:35	These [are] the sons of Ephraim after their families: of Shuthelah, the family of the Shuthalhites: of Becher, the family of the Bachrites: of Tahan, the family of the Tahanites.
Numbers 26:36	And these [are] the sons of Shuthelah: of Eran, the family of the Eranites.
Numbers 26:37	These [are] the families of the sons of Ephraim according to those that were numbered of them, thirty and two thousand and five hundred. These [are] the sons of Joseph after their families.
Numbers 26:38	The sons of Benjamin after their families: of Bela, the family of the Belaites: of Ashbel, the family of the Ashbelites: of Ahiram, the family of the Ahiramites:
Numbers 26:39	Of Shupham, the family of the Shuphamites: of Hupham, the family of the Huphamites.
Numbers 26:40	And the sons of Bela were Ard and Naaman: [of Ard], the family of the Ardites: [and] of Naaman, the family of the Naamites.
Numbers 26:41	These [are] the sons of Benjamin after their families: and they that were numbered of them [were] forty and five thousand and six hundred.
Numbers 26:42	These [are] the sons of Dan after their families: of Shuham, the family of the Shuhamites. These [are] the families of Dan after their families.
Numbers 26:43	All the families of the Shuhamites, according to those that were numbered of them, [were] threescore and four thousand and four hundred.
Numbers 26:44	[Of] the children of Asher after their families: of Jimna, the family of the Jimnites: of Jesui, the family of the Jesuites: of Beriah, the family of the Beriites.
Numbers 26:45	Of the sons of Beriah: of Heber, the family of the Heberites: of Malchiel, the family of the Malchielites.
Numbers 26:46	And the name of the daughter of Asher [was] Sarah.
Numbers 26:47	These [are] the families of the sons of Asher according to those that were numbered of them; [who were] fifty and three thousand and four hundred.
Numbers 26:48	[Of] the sons of Naphtali after their families: of Jahzeel, the family of the Jahzeelites: of Guni, the family of the Gunites:
Numbers 26:49	Of Jezer, the family of the Jezerites: of Shillem, the family of the Shillemites.
Numbers 26:50	These [are] the families of Naphtali according to their families: and they that were numbered of them [were] forty and five thousand and four hundred.
Numbers 26:51	These [were] the numbered of the children of Israel, six hundred thousand and a thousand seven hundred and thirty.
Numbers 26:52	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 26:53	Unto these the land shall be divided for an inheritance according to the number of names.
Numbers 26:54	To many thou shalt give the more inheritance, and to few thou shalt give the less inheritance: to every one shall his inheritance be given according to those that were numbered of him.
Numbers 26:55	Notwithstanding the land shall be divided by lot: according to the names of the tribes of their fathers they shall inherit.
Numbers 26:56	According to the lot shall the possession thereof be divided between many and few.
Numbers 26:57	And these [are] they that were numbered of the Levites after their families: of Gershon, the family of the Gershonites: of Kohath, the family of the Kohathites: of Merari, the family of the Merarites.
Numbers 26:58	These [are] the families of the Levites: the family of the Libnites, the family of the Hebronites, the family of the Mahlites, the family of the Mushites, the family of the Korathites. And Kohath begat Amram.
Numbers 26:59	And the name of Amram’s wife [was] Jochebed, the daughter of Levi, whom [her mother] bare to Levi in Egypt: and she bare unto Amram Aaron and Moses, and Miriam their sister.
Numbers 26:60	And unto Aaron was born Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
Numbers 26:61	And Nadab and Abihu died, when they offered strange fire before the LORD.
Numbers 26:62	And those that were numbered of them were twenty and three thousand, all males from a month old and upward: for they were not numbered among the children of Israel, because there was no inheritance given them among the children of Israel.
Numbers 26:63	These [are] they that were numbered by Moses and Eleazar the priest, who numbered the children of Israel in the plains of Moab by Jordan [near] Jericho.
Numbers 26:64	But among these there was not a man of them whom Moses and Aaron the priest numbered, when they numbered the children of Israel in the wilderness of Sinai.
Numbers 26:65	For the LORD had said of them, They shall surely die in the wilderness. And there was not left a man of them, save Caleb the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua the son of Nun.
Numbers 27:1	Then came the daughters of Zelophehad, the son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the families of Manasseh the son of Joseph: and these [are] the names of his daughters; Mahlah, Noah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Tirzah.
Numbers 27:2	And they stood before Moses, and before Eleazar the priest, and before the princes and all the congregation, [by] the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, saying,
Numbers 27:3	Our father died in the wilderness, and he was not in the company of them that gathered themselves together against the LORD in the company of Korah; but died in his own sin, and had no sons.
Numbers 27:4	Why should the name of our father be done away from among his family, because he hath no son? Give unto us [therefore] a possession among the brethren of our father.
Numbers 27:5	And Moses brought their cause before the LORD.
Numbers 27:6	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 27:7	The daughters of Zelophehad speak right: thou shalt surely give them a possession of an inheritance among their father’s brethren; and thou shalt cause the inheritance of their father to pass unto them.
Numbers 27:8	And thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel, saying, If a man die, and have no son, then ye shall cause his inheritance to pass unto his daughter.
Numbers 27:9	And if he have no daughter, then ye shall give his inheritance unto his brethren.
Numbers 27:10	And if he have no brethren, then ye shall give his inheritance unto his father’s brethren.
Numbers 27:11	And if his father have no brethren, then ye shall give his inheritance unto his kinsman that is next to him of his family, and he shall possess it: and it shall be unto the children of Israel a statute of judgment, as the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 27:12	And the LORD said unto Moses, Get thee up into this mount Abarim, and see the land which I have given unto the children of Israel.
Numbers 27:13	And when thou hast seen it, thou also shalt be gathered unto thy people, as Aaron thy brother was gathered.
Numbers 27:14	For ye rebelled against my commandment in the desert of Zin, in the strife of the congregation, to sanctify me at the water before their eyes: that [is] the water of Meribah in Kadesh in the wilderness of Zin.
Numbers 27:15	And Moses spake unto the LORD, saying,
Numbers 27:16	Let the LORD, the God of the spirits of all flesh, set a man over the congregation,
Numbers 27:17	Which may go out before them, and which may go in before them, and which may lead them out, and which may bring them in; that the congregation of the LORD be not as sheep which have no shepherd.
Numbers 27:18	And the LORD said unto Moses, Take thee Joshua the son of Nun, a man in whom [is] the spirit, and lay thine hand upon him;
Numbers 27:19	And set him before Eleazar the priest, and before all the congregation; and give him a charge in their sight.
Numbers 27:20	And thou shalt put [some] of thine honour upon him, that all the congregation of the children of Israel may be obedient.
Numbers 27:21	And he shall stand before Eleazar the priest, who shall ask [counsel] for him after the judgment of Urim before the LORD: at his word shall they go out, and at his word they shall come in, [both] he, and all the children of Israel with him, even all the congregation.
Numbers 27:22	And Moses did as the LORD commanded him: and he took Joshua, and set him before Eleazar the priest, and before all the congregation:
Numbers 27:23	And he laid his hands upon him, and gave him a charge, as the LORD commanded by the hand of Moses.
Numbers 28:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 28:2	Command the children of Israel, and say unto them, My offering, [and] my bread for my sacrifices made by fire, [for] a sweet savour unto me, shall ye observe to offer unto me in their due season.
Numbers 28:3	And thou shalt say unto them, This [is] the offering made by fire which ye shall offer unto the LORD; two lambs of the first year without spot day by day, [for] a continual burnt offering.
Numbers 28:4	The one lamb shalt thou offer in the morning, and the other lamb shalt thou offer at even;
Numbers 28:5	And a tenth [part] of an ephah of flour for a meat offering, mingled with the fourth [part] of an hin of beaten oil.
Numbers 28:6	[It is] a continual burnt offering, which was ordained in mount Sinai for a sweet savour, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD.
Numbers 28:7	And the drink offering thereof [shall be] the fourth [part] of an hin for the one lamb: in the holy [place] shalt thou cause the strong wine to be poured unto the LORD [for] a drink offering.
Numbers 28:8	And the other lamb shalt thou offer at even: as the meat offering of the morning, and as the drink offering thereof, thou shalt offer [it], a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.
Numbers 28:9	And on the sabbath day two lambs of the first year without spot, and two tenth deals of flour [for] a meat offering, mingled with oil, and the drink offering thereof:
Numbers 28:10	[This is] the burnt offering of every sabbath, beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.
Numbers 28:11	And in the beginnings of your months ye shall offer a burnt offering unto the LORD; two young bullocks, and one ram, seven lambs of the first year without spot;
Numbers 28:12	And three tenth deals of flour [for] a meat offering, mingled with oil, for one bullock; and two tenth deals of flour [for] a meat offering, mingled with oil, for one ram;
Numbers 28:13	And a several tenth deal of flour mingled with oil [for] a meat offering unto one lamb; [for] a burnt offering of a sweet savour, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD.
Numbers 28:14	And their drink offerings shall be half an hin of wine unto a bullock, and the third [part] of an hin unto a ram, and a fourth [part] of an hin unto a lamb: this [is] the burnt offering of every month throughout the months of the year.
Numbers 28:15	And one kid of the goats for a sin offering unto the LORD shall be offered, beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.
Numbers 28:16	And in the fourteenth day of the first month [is] the passover of the LORD.
Numbers 28:17	And in the fifteenth day of this month [is] the feast: seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten.
Numbers 28:18	In the first day [shall be] an holy convocation; ye shall do no manner of servile work [therein]:
Numbers 28:19	But ye shall offer a sacrifice made by fire [for] a burnt offering unto the LORD; two young bullocks, and one ram, and seven lambs of the first year: they shall be unto you without blemish:
Numbers 28:20	And their meat offering [shall be of] flour mingled with oil: three tenth deals shall ye offer for a bullock, and two tenth deals for a ram;
Numbers 28:21	A several tenth deal shalt thou offer for every lamb, throughout the seven lambs:
Numbers 28:22	And one goat [for] a sin offering, to make an atonement for you.
Numbers 28:23	Ye shall offer these beside the burnt offering in the morning, which [is] for a continual burnt offering.
Numbers 28:24	After this manner ye shall offer daily, throughout the seven days, the meat of the sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD: it shall be offered beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.
Numbers 28:25	And on the seventh day ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work.
Numbers 28:26	Also in the day of the firstfruits, when ye bring a new meat offering unto the LORD, after your weeks [be out], ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work:
Numbers 28:27	But ye shall offer the burnt offering for a sweet savour unto the LORD; two young bullocks, one ram, seven lambs of the first year;
Numbers 28:28	And their meat offering of flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals unto one bullock, two tenth deals unto one ram,
Numbers 28:29	A several tenth deal unto one lamb, throughout the seven lambs;
Numbers 28:30	[And] one kid of the goats, to make an atonement for you.
Numbers 28:31	Ye shall offer [them] beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat offering, (they shall be unto you without blemish) and their drink offerings.
Numbers 29:1	And in the seventh month, on the first [day] of the month, ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work: it is a day of blowing the trumpets unto you.
Numbers 29:2	And ye shall offer a burnt offering for a sweet savour unto the LORD; one young bullock, one ram, [and] seven lambs of the first year without blemish:
Numbers 29:3	And their meat offering [shall be of] flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals for a bullock, [and] two tenth deals for a ram,
Numbers 29:4	And one tenth deal for one lamb, throughout the seven lambs:
Numbers 29:5	And one kid of the goats [for] a sin offering, to make an atonement for you:
Numbers 29:6	Beside the burnt offering of the month, and his meat offering, and the daily burnt offering, and his meat offering, and their drink offerings, according unto their manner, for a sweet savour, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD.
Numbers 29:7	And ye shall have on the tenth [day] of this seventh month an holy convocation; and ye shall afflict your souls: ye shall not do any work [therein]:
Numbers 29:8	But ye shall offer a burnt offering unto the LORD [for] a sweet savour; one young bullock, one ram, [and] seven lambs of the first year; they shall be unto you without blemish:
Numbers 29:9	And their meat offering [shall be of] flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals to a bullock, [and] two tenth deals to one ram,
Numbers 29:10	A several tenth deal for one lamb, throughout the seven lambs:
Numbers 29:11	One kid of the goats [for] a sin offering; beside the sin offering of atonement, and the continual burnt offering, and the meat offering of it, and their drink offerings.
Numbers 29:12	And on the fifteenth day of the seventh month ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work, and ye shall keep a feast unto the LORD seven days:
Numbers 29:13	And ye shall offer a burnt offering, a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD; thirteen young bullocks, two rams, [and] fourteen lambs of the first year; they shall be without blemish:
Numbers 29:14	And their meat offering [shall be of] flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals unto every bullock of the thirteen bullocks, two tenth deals to each ram of the two rams,
Numbers 29:15	And a several tenth deal to each lamb of the fourteen lambs:
Numbers 29:16	And one kid of the goats [for] a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, his meat offering, and his drink offering.
Numbers 29:17	And on the second day [ye shall offer] twelve young bullocks, two rams, fourteen lambs of the first year without spot:
Numbers 29:18	And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, [shall be] according to their number, after the manner:
Numbers 29:19	And one kid of the goats [for] a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, and the meat offering thereof, and their drink offerings.
Numbers 29:20	And on the third day eleven bullocks, two rams, fourteen lambs of the first year without blemish;
Numbers 29:21	And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, [shall be] according to their number, after the manner:
Numbers 29:22	And one goat [for] a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat offering, and his drink offering.
Numbers 29:23	And on the fourth day ten bullocks, two rams, [and] fourteen lambs of the first year without blemish:
Numbers 29:24	Their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, [shall be] according to their number, after the manner:
Numbers 29:25	And one kid of the goats [for] a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, his meat offering, and his drink offering.
Numbers 29:26	And on the fifth day nine bullocks, two rams, [and] fourteen lambs of the first year without spot:
Numbers 29:27	And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, [shall be] according to their number, after the manner:
Numbers 29:28	And one goat [for] a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat offering, and his drink offering.
Numbers 29:29	And on the sixth day eight bullocks, two rams, [and] fourteen lambs of the first year without blemish:
Numbers 29:30	And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, [shall be] according to their number, after the manner:
Numbers 29:31	And one goat [for] a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, his meat offering, and his drink offering.
Numbers 29:32	And on the seventh day seven bullocks, two rams, [and] fourteen lambs of the first year without blemish:
Numbers 29:33	And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, [shall be] according to their number, after the manner:
Numbers 29:34	And one goat [for] a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, his meat offering, and his drink offering.
Numbers 29:35	On the eighth day ye shall have a solemn assembly: ye shall do no servile work [therein]:
Numbers 29:36	But ye shall offer a burnt offering, a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD: one bullock, one ram, seven lambs of the first year without blemish:
Numbers 29:37	Their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullock, for the ram, and for the lambs, [shall be] according to their number, after the manner:
Numbers 29:38	And one goat [for] a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat offering, and his drink offering.
Numbers 29:39	These [things] ye shall do unto the LORD in your set feasts, beside your vows, and your freewill offerings, for your burnt offerings, and for your meat offerings, and for your drink offerings, and for your peace offerings.
Numbers 29:40	And Moses told the children of Israel according to all that the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 30:1	And Moses spake unto the heads of the tribes concerning the children of Israel, saying, This [is] the thing which the LORD hath commanded.
Numbers 30:2	If a man vow a vow unto the LORD, or swear an oath to bind his soul with a bond; he shall not break his word, he shall do according to all that proceedeth out of his mouth.
Numbers 30:3	If a woman also vow a vow unto the LORD, and bind [herself] by a bond, [being] in her father’s house in her youth;
Numbers 30:4	And her father hear her vow, and her bond wherewith she hath bound her soul, and her father shall hold his peace at her: then all her vows shall stand, and every bond wherewith she hath bound her soul shall stand.
Numbers 30:5	But if her father disallow her in the day that he heareth; not any of her vows, or of her bonds wherewith she hath bound her soul, shall stand: and the LORD shall forgive her, because her father disallowed her.
Numbers 30:6	And if she had at all an husband, when she vowed, or uttered ought out of her lips, wherewith she bound her soul;
Numbers 30:7	And her husband heard [it,] and held his peace at her in the day that he heard [it]: then her vows shall stand, and her bonds wherewith she bound her soul shall stand.
Numbers 30:8	But if her husband disallowed her on the day that he heard [it]; then he shall make her vow which she vowed, and that which she uttered with her lips, wherewith she bound her soul, of none effect: and the LORD shall forgive her.
Numbers 30:9	But every vow of a widow, and of her that is divorced, wherewith they have bound their souls, shall stand against her.
Numbers 30:10	And if she vowed in her husband’s house, or bound her soul by a bond with an oath;
Numbers 30:11	And her husband heard [it], and held his peace at her, [and] disallowed her not: then all her vows shall stand, and every bond wherewith she bound her soul shall stand.
Numbers 30:12	But if her husband hath utterly made them void on the day he heard [them; then] whatsoever proceeded out of her lips concerning her vows, or concerning the bond of her soul, shall not stand: her husband hath made them void; and the LORD shall forgive her.
Numbers 30:13	Every vow, and every binding oath to afflict the soul, her husband may establish it, or her husband may make it void.
Numbers 30:14	But if her husband altogether hold his peace at her from day to day; then he establisheth all her vows, or all her bonds, which [are] upon her: he confirmeth them, because he held his peace at her in the day that he heard [them].
Numbers 30:15	But if he shall any ways make them void after that he hath heard [them]; then he shall bear her iniquity.
Numbers 30:16	These [are] the statutes, which the LORD commanded Moses, between a man and his wife, between the father and his daughter, [being yet] in her youth in her father’s house.
Numbers 31:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 31:2	Avenge the children of Israel of the Midianites: afterward shalt thou be gathered unto thy people.
Numbers 31:3	And Moses spake unto the people, saying, Arm some of yourselves unto the war, and let them go against the Midianites, and avenge the LORD of Midian.
Numbers 31:4	Of every tribe a thousand, throughout all the tribes of Israel, shall ye send to the war.
Numbers 31:5	So there were delivered out of the thousands of Israel, a thousand of [every] tribe, twelve thousand armed for war.
Numbers 31:6	And Moses sent them to the war, a thousand of [every] tribe, them and Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest, to the war, with the holy instruments, and the trumpets to blow in his hand.
Numbers 31:7	And they warred against the Midianites, as the LORD commanded Moses; and they slew all the males.
Numbers 31:8	And they slew the kings of Midian, beside the rest of them that were slain; [namely], Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, five kings of Midian: Balaam also the son of Beor they slew with the sword.
Numbers 31:9	And the children of Israel took [all] the women of Midian captives, and their little ones, and took the spoil of all their cattle, and all their flocks, and all their goods.
Numbers 31:10	And they burnt all their cities wherein they dwelt, and all their goodly castles, with fire.
Numbers 31:11	And they took all the spoil, and all the prey, [both] of men and of beasts.
Numbers 31:12	And they brought the captives, and the prey, and the spoil, unto Moses, and Eleazar the priest, and unto the congregation of the children of Israel, unto the camp at the plains of Moab, which [are] by Jordan [near] Jericho.
Numbers 31:13	And Moses, and Eleazar the priest, and all the princes of the congregation, went forth to meet them without the camp.
Numbers 31:14	And Moses was wroth with the officers of the host, [with] the captains over thousands, and captains over hundreds, which came from the battle.
Numbers 31:15	And Moses said unto them, Have ye saved all the women alive?
Numbers 31:16	Behold, these caused the children of Israel, through the counsel of Balaam, to commit trespass against the LORD in the matter of Peor, and there was a plague among the congregation of the LORD.
Numbers 31:17	Now therefore kill every male among the little ones, and kill every woman that hath known man by lying with him.
Numbers 31:18	But all the women children, that have not known a man by lying with him, keep alive for yourselves.
Numbers 31:19	And do ye abide without the camp seven days: whosoever hath killed any person, and whosoever hath touched any slain, purify [both] yourselves and your captives on the third day, and on the seventh day.
Numbers 31:20	And purify all [your] raiment, and all that is made of skins, and all work of goats’ [hair], and all things made of wood.
Numbers 31:21	And Eleazar the priest said unto the men of war which went to the battle, This [is] the ordinance of the law which the LORD commanded Moses;
Numbers 31:22	Only the gold, and the silver, the brass, the iron, the tin, and the lead,
Numbers 31:23	Every thing that may abide the fire, ye shall make [it] go through the fire, and it shall be clean: nevertheless it shall be purified with the water of separation: and all that abideth not the fire ye shall make go through the water.
Numbers 31:24	And ye shall wash your clothes on the seventh day, and ye shall be clean, and afterward ye shall come into the camp.
Numbers 31:25	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 31:26	Take the sum of the prey that was taken, [both] of man and of beast, thou, and Eleazar the priest, and the chief fathers of the congregation:
Numbers 31:27	And divide the prey into two parts; between them that took the war upon them, who went out to battle, and between all the congregation:
Numbers 31:28	And levy a tribute unto the LORD of the men of war which went out to battle: one soul of five hundred, [both] of the persons, and of the beeves, and of the asses, and of the sheep:
Numbers 31:29	Take [it] of their half, and give [it] unto Eleazar the priest, [for] an heave offering of the LORD.
Numbers 31:30	And of the children of Israel’s half, thou shalt take one portion of fifty, of the persons, of the beeves, of the asses, and of the flocks, of all manner of beasts, and give them unto the Levites, which keep the charge of the tabernacle of the LORD.
Numbers 31:31	And Moses and Eleazar the priest did as the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 31:32	And the booty, [being] the rest of the prey which the men of war had caught, was six hundred thousand and seventy thousand and five thousand sheep,
Numbers 31:33	And threescore and twelve thousand beeves,
Numbers 31:34	And threescore and one thousand asses,
Numbers 31:35	And thirty and two thousand persons in all, of women that had not known man by lying with him.
Numbers 31:36	And the half, [which was] the portion of them that went out to war, was in number three hundred thousand and seven and thirty thousand and five hundred sheep:
Numbers 31:37	And the LORD’S tribute of the sheep was six hundred and threescore and fifteen.
Numbers 31:38	And the beeves [were] thirty and six thousand; of which the LORD’S tribute [was] threescore and twelve.
Numbers 31:39	And the asses [were] thirty thousand and five hundred; of which the LORD’S tribute [was] threescore and one.
Numbers 31:40	And the persons [were] sixteen thousand; of which the LORD’S tribute [was] thirty and two persons.
Numbers 31:41	And Moses gave the tribute, [which was] the LORD’S heave offering, unto Eleazar the priest, as the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 31:42	And of the children of Israel’s half, which Moses divided from the men that warred,
Numbers 31:43	(Now the half [that pertained unto] the congregation was three hundred thousand and thirty thousand [and] seven thousand and five hundred sheep,
Numbers 31:44	And thirty and six thousand beeves,
Numbers 31:45	And thirty thousand asses and five hundred,
Numbers 31:46	And sixteen thousand persons;)
Numbers 31:47	Even of the children of Israel’s half, Moses took one portion of fifty, [both] of man and of beast, and gave them unto the Levites, which kept the charge of the tabernacle of the LORD; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 31:48	And the officers which [were] over thousands of the host, the captains of thousands, and captains of hundreds, came near unto Moses:
Numbers 31:49	And they said unto Moses, Thy servants have taken the sum of the men of war which [are] under our charge, and there lacketh not one man of us.
Numbers 31:50	We have therefore brought an oblation for the LORD, what every man hath gotten, of jewels of gold, chains, and bracelets, rings, earrings, and tablets, to make an atonement for our souls before the LORD.
Numbers 31:51	And Moses and Eleazar the priest took the gold of them, [even] all wrought jewels.
Numbers 31:52	And all the gold of the offering that they offered up to the LORD, of the captains of thousands, and of the captains of hundreds, was sixteen thousand seven hundred and fifty shekels.
Numbers 31:53	([For] the men of war had taken spoil, every man for himself.)
Numbers 31:54	And Moses and Eleazar the priest took the gold of the captains of thousands and of hundreds, and brought it into the tabernacle of the congregation, [for] a memorial for the children of Israel before the LORD.
Numbers 32:1	Now the children of Reuben and the children of Gad had a very great multitude of cattle: and when they saw the land of Jazer, and the land of Gilead, that, behold, the place [was] a place for cattle;
Numbers 32:2	The children of Gad and the children of Reuben came and spake unto Moses, and to Eleazar the priest, and unto the princes of the congregation, saying,
Numbers 32:3	Ataroth, and Dibon, and Jazer, and Nimrah, and Heshbon, and Elealeh, and Shebam, and Nebo, and Beon,
Numbers 32:4	[Even] the country which the LORD smote before the congregation of Israel, [is] a land for cattle, and thy servants have cattle:
Numbers 32:5	Wherefore, said they, if we have found grace in thy sight, let this land be given unto thy servants for a possession, [and] bring us not over Jordan.
Numbers 32:6	And Moses said unto the children of Gad and to the children of Reuben, Shall your brethren go to war, and shall ye sit here?
Numbers 32:7	And wherefore discourage ye the heart of the children of Israel from going over into the land which the LORD hath given them?
Numbers 32:8	Thus did your fathers, when I sent them from Kadeshbarnea to see the land.
Numbers 32:9	For when they went up unto the valley of Eshcol, and saw the land, they discouraged the heart of the children of Israel, that they should not go into the land which the LORD had given them.
Numbers 32:10	And the LORD’S anger was kindled the same time, and he sware, saying,
Numbers 32:11	Surely none of the men that came up out of Egypt, from twenty years old and upward, shall see the land which I sware unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob; because they have not wholly followed me:
Numbers 32:12	Save Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenezite, and Joshua the son of Nun: for they have wholly followed the LORD.
Numbers 32:13	And the LORD’S anger was kindled against Israel, and he made them wander in the wilderness forty years, until all the generation, that had done evil in the sight of the LORD, was consumed.
Numbers 32:14	And, behold, ye are risen up in your fathers’ stead, an increase of sinful men, to augment yet the fierce anger of the LORD toward Israel.
Numbers 32:15	For if ye turn away from after him, he will yet again leave them in the wilderness; and ye shall destroy all this people.
Numbers 32:16	And they came near unto him, and said, We will build sheepfolds here for our cattle, and cities for our little ones:
Numbers 32:17	But we ourselves will go ready armed before the children of Israel, until we have brought them unto their place: and our little ones shall dwell in the fenced cities because of the inhabitants of the land.
Numbers 32:18	We will not return unto our houses, until the children of Israel have inherited every man his inheritance.
Numbers 32:19	For we will not inherit with them on yonder side Jordan, or forward; because our inheritance is fallen to us on this side Jordan eastward.
Numbers 32:20	And Moses said unto them, If ye will do this thing, if ye will go armed before the LORD to war,
Numbers 32:21	And will go all of you armed over Jordan before the LORD, until he hath driven out his enemies from before him,
Numbers 32:22	And the land be subdued before the LORD: then afterward ye shall return, and be guiltless before the LORD, and before Israel; and this land shall be your possession before the LORD.
Numbers 32:23	But if ye will not do so, behold, ye have sinned against the LORD: and be sure your sin will find you out.
Numbers 32:24	Build you cities for your little ones, and folds for your sheep; and do that which hath proceeded out of your mouth.
Numbers 32:25	And the children of Gad and the children of Reuben spake unto Moses, saying, Thy servants will do as my lord commandeth.
Numbers 32:26	Our little ones, our wives, our flocks, and all our cattle, shall be there in the cities of Gilead:
Numbers 32:27	But thy servants will pass over, every man armed for war, before the LORD to battle, as my lord saith.
Numbers 32:28	So concerning them Moses commanded Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun, and the chief fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel:
Numbers 32:29	And Moses said unto them, If the children of Gad and the children of Reuben will pass with you over Jordan, every man armed to battle, before the LORD, and the land shall be subdued before you; then ye shall give them the land of Gilead for a possession:
Numbers 32:30	But if they will not pass over with you armed, they shall have possessions among you in the land of Canaan.
Numbers 32:31	And the children of Gad and the children of Reuben answered, saying, As the LORD hath said unto thy servants, so will we do.
Numbers 32:32	We will pass over armed before the LORD into the land of Canaan, that the possession of our inheritance on this side Jordan [may be] ours.
Numbers 32:33	And Moses gave unto them, [even] to the children of Gad, and to the children of Reuben, and unto half the tribe of Manasseh the son of Joseph, the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites, and the kingdom of Og king of Bashan, the land, with the cities thereof in the coasts, [even] the cities of the country round about.
Numbers 32:34	And the children of Gad built Dibon, and Ataroth, and Aroer,
Numbers 32:35	And Atroth, Shophan, and Jaazer, and Jogbehah,
Numbers 32:36	And Bethnimrah, and Bethharan, fenced cities: and folds for sheep.
Numbers 32:37	And the children of Reuben built Heshbon, and Elealeh, and Kirjathaim,
Numbers 32:38	And Nebo, and Baalmeon, (their names being changed,) and Shibmah: and gave other names unto the cities which they builded.
Numbers 32:39	And the children of Machir the son of Manasseh went to Gilead, and took it, and dispossessed the Amorite which [was] in it.
Numbers 32:40	And Moses gave Gilead unto Machir the son of Manasseh; and he dwelt therein.
Numbers 32:41	And Jair the son of Manasseh went and took the small towns thereof, and called them Havothjair.
Numbers 32:42	And Nobah went and took Kenath, and the villages thereof, and called it Nobah, after his own name.
Numbers 33:1	These [are] the journeys of the children of Israel, which went forth out of the land of Egypt with their armies under the hand of Moses and Aaron.
Numbers 33:2	And Moses wrote their goings out according to their journeys by the commandment of the LORD: and these [are] their journeys according to their goings out.
Numbers 33:3	And they departed from Rameses in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month; on the morrow after the passover the children of Israel went out with an high hand in the sight of all the Egyptians.
Numbers 33:4	For the Egyptians buried all [their] firstborn, which the LORD had smitten among them: upon their gods also the LORD executed judgments.
Numbers 33:5	And the children of Israel removed from Rameses, and pitched in Succoth.
Numbers 33:6	And they departed from Succoth, and pitched in Etham, which [is] in the edge of the wilderness.
Numbers 33:7	And they removed from Etham, and turned again unto Pihahiroth, which [is] before Baalzephon: and they pitched before Migdol.
Numbers 33:8	And they departed from before Pihahiroth, and passed through the midst of the sea into the wilderness, and went three days’ journey in the wilderness of Etham, and pitched in Marah.
Numbers 33:9	And they removed from Marah, and came unto Elim: and in Elim [were] twelve fountains of water, and threescore and ten palm trees; and they pitched there.
Numbers 33:10	And they removed from Elim, and encamped by the Red sea.
Numbers 33:11	And they removed from the Red sea, and encamped in the wilderness of Sin.
Numbers 33:12	And they took their journey out of the wilderness of Sin, and encamped in Dophkah.
Numbers 33:13	And they departed from Dophkah, and encamped in Alush.
Numbers 33:14	And they removed from Alush, and encamped at Rephidim, where was no water for the people to drink.
Numbers 33:15	And they departed from Rephidim, and pitched in the wilderness of Sinai.
Numbers 33:16	And they removed from the desert of Sinai, and pitched at Kibrothhattaavah.
Numbers 33:17	And they departed from Kibrothhattaavah, and encamped at Hazeroth.
Numbers 33:18	And they departed from Hazeroth, and pitched in Rithmah.
Numbers 33:19	And they departed from Rithmah, and pitched at Rimmonparez.
Numbers 33:20	And they departed from Rimmonparez, and pitched in Libnah.
Numbers 33:21	And they removed from Libnah, and pitched at Rissah.
Numbers 33:22	And they journeyed from Rissah, and pitched in Kehelathah.
Numbers 33:23	And they went from Kehelathah, and pitched in mount Shapher.
Numbers 33:24	And they removed from mount Shapher, and encamped in Haradah.
Numbers 33:25	And they removed from Haradah, and pitched in Makheloth.
Numbers 33:26	And they removed from Makheloth, and encamped at Tahath.
Numbers 33:27	And they departed from Tahath, and pitched at Tarah.
Numbers 33:28	And they removed from Tarah, and pitched in Mithcah.
Numbers 33:29	And they went from Mithcah, and pitched in Hashmonah.
Numbers 33:30	And they departed from Hashmonah, and encamped at Moseroth.
Numbers 33:31	And they departed from Moseroth, and pitched in Benejaakan.
Numbers 33:32	And they removed from Benejaakan, and encamped at Horhagidgad.
Numbers 33:33	And they went from Horhagidgad, and pitched in Jotbathah.
Numbers 33:34	And they removed from Jotbathah, and encamped at Ebronah.
Numbers 33:35	And they departed from Ebronah, and encamped at Eziongaber.
Numbers 33:36	And they removed from Eziongaber, and pitched in the wilderness of Zin, which [is] Kadesh.
Numbers 33:37	And they removed from Kadesh, and pitched in mount Hor, in the edge of the land of Edom.
Numbers 33:38	And Aaron the priest went up into mount Hor at the commandment of the LORD, and died there, in the fortieth year after the children of Israel were come out of the land of Egypt, in the first [day] of the fifth month.
Numbers 33:39	And Aaron [was] an hundred and twenty and three years old when he died in mount Hor.
Numbers 33:40	And king Arad the Canaanite, which dwelt in the south in the land of Canaan, heard of the coming of the children of Israel.
Numbers 33:41	And they departed from mount Hor, and pitched in Zalmonah.
Numbers 33:42	And they departed from Zalmonah, and pitched in Punon.
Numbers 33:43	And they departed from Punon, and pitched in Oboth.
Numbers 33:44	And they departed from Oboth, and pitched in Ijeabarim, in the border of Moab.
Numbers 33:45	And they departed from Iim, and pitched in Dibongad.
Numbers 33:46	And they removed from Dibongad, and encamped in Almondiblathaim.
Numbers 33:47	And they removed from Almondiblathaim, and pitched in the mountains of Abarim, before Nebo.
Numbers 33:48	And they departed from the mountains of Abarim, and pitched in the plains of Moab by Jordan [near] Jericho.
Numbers 33:49	And they pitched by Jordan, from Bethjesimoth [even] unto Abelshittim in the plains of Moab.
Numbers 33:50	And the LORD spake unto Moses in the plains of Moab by Jordan [near] Jericho, saying,
Numbers 33:51	Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye are passed over Jordan into the land of Canaan;
Numbers 33:52	Then ye shall drive out all the inhabitants of the land from before you, and destroy all their pictures, and destroy all their molten images, and quite pluck down all their high places:
Numbers 33:53	And ye shall dispossess [the inhabitants of] the land, and dwell therein: for I have given you the land to possess it.
Numbers 33:54	And ye shall divide the land by lot for an inheritance among your families: [and] to the more ye shall give the more inheritance, and to the fewer ye shall give the less inheritance: every man’s [inheritance] shall be in the place where his lot falleth; according to the tribes of your fathers ye shall inherit.
Numbers 33:55	But if ye will not drive out the inhabitants of the land from before you; then it shall come to pass, that those which ye let remain of them [shall be] pricks in your eyes, and thorns in your sides, and shall vex you in the land wherein ye dwell.
Numbers 33:56	Moreover it shall come to pass, [that] I shall do unto you, as I thought to do unto them.
Numbers 34:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 34:2	Command the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye come into the land of Canaan; (this [is] the land that shall fall unto you for an inheritance, [even] the land of Canaan with the coasts thereof:)
Numbers 34:3	Then your south quarter shall be from the wilderness of Zin along by the coast of Edom, and your south border shall be the outmost coast of the salt sea eastward:
Numbers 34:4	And your border shall turn from the south to the ascent of Akrabbim, and pass on to Zin: and the going forth thereof shall be from the south to Kadeshbarnea, and shall go on to Hazaraddar, and pass on to Azmon:
Numbers 34:5	And the border shall fetch a compass from Azmon unto the river of Egypt, and the goings out of it shall be at the sea.
Numbers 34:6	And [as for] the western border, ye shall even have the great sea for a border: this shall be your west border.
Numbers 34:7	And this shall be your north border: from the great sea ye shall point out for you mount Hor:
Numbers 34:8	From mount Hor ye shall point out [your border] unto the entrance of Hamath; and the goings forth of the border shall be to Zedad:
Numbers 34:9	And the border shall go on to Ziphron, and the goings out of it shall be at Hazarenan: this shall be your north border.
Numbers 34:10	And ye shall point out your east border from Hazarenan to Shepham:
Numbers 34:11	And the coast shall go down from Shepham to Riblah, on the east side of Ain; and the border shall descend, and shall reach unto the side of the sea of Chinnereth eastward:
Numbers 34:12	And the border shall go down to Jordan, and the goings out of it shall be at the salt sea: this shall be your land with the coasts thereof round about.
Numbers 34:13	And Moses commanded the children of Israel, saying, This [is] the land which ye shall inherit by lot, which the LORD commanded to give unto the nine tribes, and to the half tribe:
Numbers 34:14	For the tribe of the children of Reuben according to the house of their fathers, and the tribe of the children of Gad according to the house of their fathers, have received [their inheritance]; and half the tribe of Manasseh have received their inheritance:
Numbers 34:15	The two tribes and the half tribe have received their inheritance on this side Jordan [near] Jericho eastward, toward the sunrising.
Numbers 34:16	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 34:17	These [are] the names of the men which shall divide the land unto you: Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun.
Numbers 34:18	And ye shall take one prince of every tribe, to divide the land by inheritance.
Numbers 34:19	And the names of the men [are] these: Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh.
Numbers 34:20	And of the tribe of the children of Simeon, Shemuel the son of Ammihud.
Numbers 34:21	Of the tribe of Benjamin, Elidad the son of Chislon.
Numbers 34:22	And the prince of the tribe of the children of Dan, Bukki the son of Jogli.
Numbers 34:23	The prince of the children of Joseph, for the tribe of the children of Manasseh, Hanniel the son of Ephod.
Numbers 34:24	And the prince of the tribe of the children of Ephraim, Kemuel the son of Shiphtan.
Numbers 34:25	And the prince of the tribe of the children of Zebulun, Elizaphan the son of Parnach.
Numbers 34:26	And the prince of the tribe of the children of Issachar, Paltiel the son of Azzan.
Numbers 34:27	And the prince of the tribe of the children of Asher, Ahihud the son of Shelomi.
Numbers 34:28	And the prince of the tribe of the children of Naphtali, Pedahel the son of Ammihud.
Numbers 34:29	These [are they] whom the LORD commanded to divide the inheritance unto the children of Israel in the land of Canaan.
Numbers 35:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses in the plains of Moab by Jordan [near] Jericho, saying,
Numbers 35:2	Command the children of Israel, that they give unto the Levites of the inheritance of their possession cities to dwell in; and ye shall give [also] unto the Levites suburbs for the cities round about them.
Numbers 35:3	And the cities shall they have to dwell in; and the suburbs of them shall be for their cattle, and for their goods, and for all their beasts.
Numbers 35:4	And the suburbs of the cities, which ye shall give unto the Levites, [shall reach] from the wall of the city and outward a thousand cubits round about.
Numbers 35:5	And ye shall measure from without the city on the east side two thousand cubits, and on the south side two thousand cubits, and on the west side two thousand cubits, and on the north side two thousand cubits; and the city [shall be] in the midst: this shall be to them the suburbs of the cities.
Numbers 35:6	And among the cities which ye shall give unto the Levites [there shall be] six cities for refuge, which ye shall appoint for the manslayer, that he may flee thither: and to them ye shall add forty and two cities.
Numbers 35:7	[So] all the cities which ye shall give to the Levites [shall be] forty and eight cities: them [shall ye give] with their suburbs.
Numbers 35:8	And the cities which ye shall give [shall be] of the possession of the children of Israel: from [them that have] many ye shall give many; but from [them that have] few ye shall give few: every one shall give of his cities unto the Levites according to his inheritance which he inheriteth.
Numbers 35:9	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 35:10	Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye be come over Jordan into the land of Canaan;
Numbers 35:11	Then ye shall appoint you cities to be cities of refuge for you; that the slayer may flee thither, which killeth any person at unawares.
Numbers 35:12	And they shall be unto you cities for refuge from the avenger; that the manslayer die not, until he stand before the congregation in judgment.
Numbers 35:13	And of these cities which ye shall give six cities shall ye have for refuge.
Numbers 35:14	Ye shall give three cities on this side Jordan, and three cities shall ye give in the land of Canaan, [which] shall be cities of refuge.
Numbers 35:15	These six cities shall be a refuge, [both] for the children of Israel, and for the stranger, and for the sojourner among them: that every one that killeth any person unawares may flee thither.
Numbers 35:16	And if he smite him with an instrument of iron, so that he die, he [is] a murderer: the murderer shall surely be put to death.
Numbers 35:17	And if he smite him with throwing a stone, wherewith he may die, and he die, he [is] a murderer: the murderer shall surely be put to death.
Numbers 35:18	Or [if] he smite him with an hand weapon of wood, wherewith he may die, and he die, he [is] a murderer: the murderer shall surely be put to death.
Numbers 35:19	The revenger of blood himself shall slay the murderer: when he meeteth him, he shall slay him.
Numbers 35:20	But if he thrust him of hatred, or hurl at him by laying of wait, that he die;
Numbers 35:21	Or in enmity smite him with his hand, that he die: he that smote [him] shall surely be put to death; [for] he [is] a murderer: the revenger of blood shall slay the murderer, when he meeteth him.
Numbers 35:22	But if he thrust him suddenly without enmity, or have cast upon him any thing without laying of wait,
Numbers 35:23	Or with any stone, wherewith a man may die, seeing [him] not, and cast [it] upon him, that he die, and [was] not his enemy, neither sought his harm:
Numbers 35:24	Then the congregation shall judge between the slayer and the revenger of blood according to these judgments:
Numbers 35:25	And the congregation shall deliver the slayer out of the hand of the revenger of blood, and the congregation shall restore him to the city of his refuge, whither he was fled: and he shall abide in it unto the death of the high priest, which was anointed with the holy oil.
Numbers 35:26	But if the slayer shall at any time come without the border of the city of his refuge, whither he was fled;
Numbers 35:27	And the revenger of blood find him without the borders of the city of his refuge, and the revenger of blood kill the slayer; he shall not be guilty of blood:
Numbers 35:28	Because he should have remained in the city of his refuge until the death of the high priest: but after the death of the high priest the slayer shall return into the land of his possession.
Numbers 35:29	So these [things] shall be for a statute of judgment unto you throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
Numbers 35:30	Whoso killeth any person, the murderer shall be put to death by the mouth of witnesses: but one witness shall not testify against any person [to cause him] to die.
Numbers 35:31	Moreover ye shall take no satisfaction for the life of a murderer, which [is] guilty of death: but he shall be surely put to death.
Numbers 35:32	And ye shall take no satisfaction for him that is fled to the city of his refuge, that he should come again to dwell in the land, until the death of the priest.
Numbers 35:33	So ye shall not pollute the land wherein ye [are]: for blood it defileth the land: and the land cannot be cleansed of the blood that is shed therein, but by the blood of him that shed it.
Numbers 35:34	Defile not therefore the land which ye shall inhabit, wherein I dwell: for I the LORD dwell among the children of Israel.
Numbers 36:1	And the chief fathers of the families of the children of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the families of the sons of Joseph, came near, and spake before Moses, and before the princes, the chief fathers of the children of Israel:
Numbers 36:2	And they said, The LORD commanded my lord to give the land for an inheritance by lot to the children of Israel: and my lord was commanded by the LORD to give the inheritance of Zelophehad our brother unto his daughters.
Numbers 36:3	And if they be married to any of the sons of the [other] tribes of the children of Israel, then shall their inheritance be taken from the inheritance of our fathers, and shall be put to the inheritance of the tribe whereunto they are received: so shall it be taken from the lot of our inheritance.
Numbers 36:4	And when the jubile of the children of Israel shall be, then shall their inheritance be put unto the inheritance of the tribe whereunto they are received: so shall their inheritance be taken away from the inheritance of the tribe of our fathers.
Numbers 36:5	And Moses commanded the children of Israel according to the word of the LORD, saying, The tribe of the sons of Joseph hath said well.
Numbers 36:6	This [is] the thing which the LORD doth command concerning the daughters of Zelophehad, saying, Let them marry to whom they think best; only to the family of the tribe of their father shall they marry.
Numbers 36:7	So shall not the inheritance of the children of Israel remove from tribe to tribe: for every one of the children of Israel shall keep himself to the inheritance of the tribe of his fathers.
Numbers 36:8	And every daughter, that possesseth an inheritance in any tribe of the children of Israel, shall be wife unto one of the family of the tribe of her father, that the children of Israel may enjoy every man the inheritance of his fathers.
Numbers 36:9	Neither shall the inheritance remove from [one] tribe to another tribe; but every one of the tribes of the children of Israel shall keep himself to his own inheritance.
Numbers 36:10	Even as the LORD commanded Moses, so did the daughters of Zelophehad:
Numbers 36:11	For Mahlah, Tirzah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Noah, the daughters of Zelophehad, were married unto their father’s brothers’ sons:
Numbers 36:12	[And] they were married into the families of the sons of Manasseh the son of Joseph, and their inheritance remained in the tribe of the family of their father.
Numbers 36:13	These [are] the commandments and the judgments, which the LORD commanded by the hand of Moses unto the children of Israel in the plains of Moab by Jordan [near] Jericho.
