Behold the fountain of
filthy water which thy father saw; yea, even the river of which
he spake; and the depths thereof are the depths of hell.

1 Nephi 12:17
 17 And the mists of darkness are the temptations of the devil,
which blindeth the eyes, and hardeneth the hearts of the children
of men, and leadeth them away into broad roads, that they perish
and are lost.

1 Nephi 12:18
 18 And the large and spacious building, which thy father saw, is
vain imaginations and the pride of the children of men.  And a
great and a terrible gulf divideth them; yea, even the word of
the justice of the Eternal God, and the Messiah who is the Lamb
of God, of whom the Holy Ghost beareth record, from the beginning
of the world until this time, and from this time henceforth and
forever.

Look!  And I looked and beheld many nations and kingdoms.

1 Nephi 13:2
 2 And the angel said unto me: What beholdest thou?  And I said:
I behold many nations and kingdoms.

1 Nephi 13:3
 3 And he said unto me: These are the nations and kingdoms of the
Gentiles.

1 Nephi 13:4
 4 And it came to pass that I saw among the nations of the
Gentiles the formation of a great church.

1 Nephi 13:5
 5 And the angel said unto me: Behold the formation of a church
which is most abominable above all other churches, which slayeth
the saints of God, yea, and tortureth them and bindeth them down,
and yoketh them with a yoke of iron, and bringeth them down into
captivity.

1 Nephi 13:6
 6 And it came to pass that I beheld this great and abominable
church; and I saw the devil that he was the founder of it.

1 Nephi 13:7
 7 And I also saw gold, and silver, and silks, and scarlets, and
fine-twined linen, and all manner of precious clothing; and I saw
many harlots.

1 Nephi 13:8
 8 And the angel spake unto me, saying: Behold the gold, and the
silver, and the silks, and the scarlets, and the fine-twined
linen, and the precious clothing, and the harlots, are the
desires of this great and abominable church.

1 Nephi 13:9
 9 And also for the praise of the world do they destroy the
saints of God, and bring them down into captivity.







1 Nephi 13:21
 21 And the angel said unto me: Knowest thou the meaning of the
book?

1 Nephi 13:22
 22 And I said unto him: I know not.

1 Nephi 13:23
 23 And he said: Behold it proceedeth out of the mouth of a Jew. 
And I, Nephi, beheld it; and he said unto me: The book that thou
beholdest is a record of the Jews, which contains the covenants
of the Lord, which he hath made unto the house of Israel; and it
also containeth many of the prophecies of the holy prophets; and
it is a record like unto the engravings which are upon the plates
of brass, save there are not so many; nevertheless, they contain
the covenants of the Lord, which he hath made unto the house of
Israel; wherefore, they are of great worth unto the Gentiles.

1 Nephi 13:24
 24 And the angel of the Lord said unto me: Thou hast beheld that
the book proceeded forth from the mouth of a Jew; and when it
proceeded forth from the mouth of a Jew it contained the fulness
of the gospel of the Lord, of whom the twelve apostles bear
record; and they bear record according to the truth which is in
the Lamb of God.

1 Nephi 13:25
 25 Wherefore, these things go forth from the Jews in purity unto
the Gentiles, according to the truth which is in God.

1 Nephi 13:26
 26 And after they go forth by the hand of the twelve apostles of
the Lamb, from the Jews unto the Gentiles, thou seest the
formation of a great and abominable church, which is most
abominable above all other churches; for behold, they have taken
away from the gospel of the Lamb many parts which are plain and
most precious; and also many covenants of the Lord have they
taken away.

1 Nephi 13:27
 27 And all this have they done that they might pervert the right
ways of the Lord, that they might blind the eyes and harden the
hearts of the children of men.

1 Nephi 13:28
 28 Wherefore, thou seest that after the book hath gone forth
through the hands of the great and abominable church, that there
are many plain and precious things taken away from the book,
which is the book of the Lamb of God.

1 Nephi 13:29
 29 And after these plain and precious things were taken away it
goeth forth unto all the nations of the Gentiles; and after it
goeth forth unto all the nations of the Gentiles, yea, even
across the many waters which thou hast seen with the Gentiles
which have gone forth out of captivity, thou seest--because of
the many plain and precious things which have been taken out of
the book, which were plain unto the understanding of the children
of men, according to the plainness which is in the Lamb of
God--because of these things which are taken away out of the
gospel of the Lamb, an exceedingly great many do stumble, yea,
insomuch that Satan hath great power over them.

1 Nephi 13:30
 30 Nevertheless, thou beholdest that the Gentiles who have gone
forth out of captivity, and have been lifted up by the power of
God above all other nations, upon the face of the land which is
choice above all other lands, which is the land that the Lord God
hath covenanted with thy father that his seed should have for the
land of their inheritance; wherefore, thou seest that the Lord
God will not suffer that the Gentiles will utterly destroy the
mixture of thy seed, which are among thy brethren.

1 Nephi 13:31
 31 Neither will he suffer that the Gentiles shall destroy the
seed of thy brethren.

1 Nephi 13:32
 32 Neither will the Lord God suffer that the Gentiles shall
forever remain in that awful state of blindness, which thou
beholdest they are in, because of the plain and most precious
parts of the gospel of the Lamb which have been kept back by that
abominable church, whose formation thou hast seen.

1 Nephi 13:33
 33 Wherefore saith the Lamb of God: I will be merciful unto the
Gentiles, unto the visiting of the remnant of the house of Israel
in great judgment.

1 Nephi 13:34
 34 And it came to pass that the angel of the Lord spake unto me,
saying: Behold, saith the Lamb of God, after I have visited the
remnant of the house of Israel--and this remnant of whom I speak
is the seed of thy father--wherefore, after I have visited them
in judgment, and smitten them by the hand of the Gentiles, and
after the Gentiles do stumble exceedingly, because of the most
plain and precious parts of the gospel of the Lamb which have
been kept back by that abominable church, which is the mother of
harlots, saith the Lamb--I will be merciful unto the Gentiles in
that day, insomuch that I will bring forth unto them, in mine own
power, much of my gospel, which shall be plain and precious,
saith the Lamb.

1 Nephi 13:35
 35 For, behold, saith the Lamb: I will manifest myself unto thy
seed, that they shall write many things which I shall minister
unto them, which shall be plain and precious; and after thy seed
shall be destroyed, and dwindle in unbelief, and also the seed of
thy brethren, behold, these things shall be hid up, to come forth
unto the Gentiles, by the gift and power of the Lamb.

1 Nephi 13:36
 36 And in them shall be written my gospel, saith the Lamb, and
my rock and my salvation.

1 Nephi 13:37
 37 And blessed are they who shall seek to bring forth my Zion at
that day, for they shall have the gift and the power of the Holy
Ghost; and if they endure unto the end they shall be lifted up at
the last day, and shall be saved in the everlasting kingdom of
the Lamb; and whoso shall publish peace, yea, tidings of great
joy, how beautiful upon the mountains shall they be.





These last records,
which thou hast seen among the Gentiles, shall establish the
truth of the first, which are of the twelve apostles of the Lamb,
and shall make known the plain and precious things which have
been taken away from them; and shall make known to all kindreds,
tongues, and people, that the Lamb of God is the Son of the
Eternal Father, and the Savior of the world; and that all men
must come unto him, or they cannot be saved.

1 Nephi 13:41
 41 And they must come according to the words which shall be
established by the mouth of the Lamb; and the words of the Lamb
shall be made known in the records of thy seed, as well as in the
records of the twelve apostles of the Lamb; wherefore they both
shall be established in one; for there is one God and one
Shepherd over all the earth.

1 Nephi 13:42
 42 And the time cometh that he shall manifest himself unto all
nations, both unto the Jews and also unto the Gentiles; and after
he has manifested himself unto the Jews and also unto the
Gentiles, then he shall manifest himself unto the Gentiles and
also unto the Jews, and the last shall be first, and the first
shall be last.


 

Thou hast beheld that if the Gentiles repent it shall be
well with them; and thou also knowest concerning the covenants of
the Lord unto the house of Israel; and thou also hast heard that
whoso repenteth not must perish.

1 Nephi 14:6
 6 Therefore, wo be unto the Gentiles if it so be that they
harden their hearts against the Lamb of God.

1 Nephi 14:7
 7 For the time cometh, saith the Lamb of God, that I will work a
great and a marvelous work among the children of men; a work
which shall be everlasting, either on the one hand or on the
other--either to the convincing of them unto peace and life
eternal, or unto the deliverance of them to the hardness of their
hearts and the blindness of their minds unto their being brought
down into captivity, and also into destruction, both temporally
and spiritually, according to the captivity of the devil, of
which I have spoken.

1 Nephi 14:8
 8 And it came to pass that when the angel had spoken these
words, he said unto me: Rememberest thou the covenants of the
Father unto the house of Israel?  I said unto him, Yea.

1 Nephi 14:9
 9 And it came to pass that he said unto me: Look, and behold
that great and abominable church, which is the mother of
abominations, whose founder is the devil.

1 Nephi 14:10
 10 And he said unto me: Behold there are save two churches only;
the one is the church of the Lamb of God, and the other is the
church of the devil; wherefore, whoso belongeth not to the church
of the Lamb of God belongeth to that great church, which is the
mother of abominations; and she is the whore of all the earth.

.


Look!

1 Nephi 14:19
 19 And I looked and beheld a man, and he was dressed in a white
robe.

1 Nephi 14:20
 20 And the angel said unto me: Behold one of the twelve apostles
of the Lamb.

1 Nephi 14:21
 21 Behold, he shall see and write the remainder of these things;
yea, and also many things which have been.

1 Nephi 14:22
 22 And he shall also write concerning the end of the world.

1 Nephi 14:23
 23 Wherefore, the things which he shall write are just and true;
and behold they are written in the book which thou beheld
proceeding out of the mouth of the Jew; and at the time they
proceeded out of the mouth of the Jew, or, at the time the book
proceeded out of the mouth of the Jew, the things which were
written were plain and pure, and most precious and easy to the
understanding of all men.

1 Nephi 14:24
 24 And behold, the things which this apostle of the Lamb shall
write are many things which thou hast seen; and behold, the
remainder shalt thou see.

1 Nephi 14:25
 25 But the things which thou shalt see hereafter thou shalt not
write; for the Lord God hath ordained the apostle of the Lamb of
God that he should write them.

1 Nephi 14:26
 26 And also others who have been, to them hath he shown all
things, and they have written them; and they are sealed up to
come forth in their purity, according to the truth which is in
the Lamb, in the own due time of the Lord, unto the house of
Israel.






1 Nephi 14:27
 27 And I, Nephi, heard and bear record, that the name of the
apostle of the Lamb was John, according to the word of the angel.

1 Nephi 14:28
 28 And behold, I, Nephi, am forbidden that I should write the
remainder of the things which I saw and heard; wherefore the
things which I have written sufficeth me; and I have written but
a small part of the things which I saw.

1 Nephi 14:29
 29 And I bear record that I saw the things which my father saw,
and the angel of the Lord did make them known unto me.

1 Nephi 14:30
 30 And now I make an end of speaking concerning the things which
I saw while I was carried away in the spirit; and if all the
things which I saw are not written, the things which I have
written are true.  And thus it is.  Amen.

1 Nephi 15
Chapter 15

1 Nephi 15:1
 1 And it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had been carried away
in the spirit, and seen all these things, I returned to the tent
of my father.

1 Nephi 15:2
 2 And it came to pass that I beheld my brethren, and they were
disputing one with another concerning the things my father had
spoken unto them.

1 Nephi 15:3
 3 For he truly spake many great things unto them, which were
hard to be understood, save a man should inquire of the Lord; and
they being hard in their hearts, therefore they did not look unto
the Lord as they ought.

1 Nephi 15:4
 4 And now I, Nephi, was grieved because of the hardness of their
hearts, and also, because of the things which I had seen, and
knew they must unavoidably come to pass because of the great
wickedness of the children of men.

1 Nephi 15:5
 5 And it came to pass that I was overcome because of my
afflictions, for I considered that mine afflictions were great
above all, because of the destruction of my people, for I had
beheld their fall.

1 Nephi 15:6
 6 And it came to pass that after I had received strength I spake
unto my brethren, desiring to know of them the cause of their
disputations.

1 Nephi 15:7
 7 And they said: Behold, we cannot understand the words which
our father hath spoken concerning the natural branches of the
olive-tree, and also concerning the Gentiles.

1 Nephi 15:8
 8 And I said unto them: Have ye inquired of the Lord?

1 Nephi 15:9
 9 And they said unto me: We have not; for the Lord maketh no
such thing known unto us.

1 Nephi 15:10
 10 Behold, I said unto them: How is it that ye do not keep the
commandments of the Lord? How is it that ye will perish, because
of the hardness of your hearts?

1 Nephi 15:11
 11 Do ye not remember the things which the Lord hath said?--If
ye will not harden your hearts, and ask me in faith, believing
that ye shall receive, with diligence in keeping my commandments,
surely these things shall be made known unto you.

1 Nephi 15:12
 12 Behold, I say unto you, that the house of Israel was compared
unto an olive-tree, by the Spirit of the Lord which was in our
father; and behold are we not broken off from the house of
Israel, and are we not a branch of the house of Israel?

1 Nephi 15:13
 13 And now, the thing which our father meaneth concerning the
grafting in of the natural branches through the fulness of the
Gentiles, is, that in the latter days, when our seed shall have
dwindled in unbelief, yea, for the space of many years, and many
generations after the Messiah shall be manifested in body unto
the children of men, then shall the fulness of the gospel of the
Messiah come unto the Gentiles, and from the Gentiles unto the
remnant of our seed--

1 Nephi 15:14
 14 And at that day shall the remnant of our seed know that they
are of the house of Israel, and that they are the covenant people
of the Lord; and then shall they know and come to the knowledge
of their forefathers, and also to the knowledge of the gospel of
their Redeemer, which was ministered unto their fathers by him;
wherefore, they shall come to the knowledge of their Redeemer and
the very points of his doctrine, that they may know how to come
unto him and be saved.

1 Nephi 15:15
 15 And then at that day will they not rejoice and give praise
unto their everlasting God, their rock and their salvation? Yea,
at that day, will they not receive the strength and nourishment
from the true vine? Yea, will they not come unto the true fold of
God?

1 Nephi 15:16
 16 Behold, I say unto you, Yea; they shall be remembered again
among the house of Israel; they shall be grafted in, being a
natural branch of the olive-tree, into the true olive-tree.

1 Nephi 15:17
 17 And this is what our father meaneth; and he meaneth that it
will not come to pass until after they are scattered by the
Gentiles; and he meaneth that it shall come by way of the
Gentiles, that the Lord may show his power unto the Gentiles, for
the very cause that he shall be rejected of the Jews, or of the
house of Israel.

1 Nephi 15:18
 18 Wherefore, our father hath not spoken of our seed alone, but
also of all the house of Israel, pointing to the covenant which
should be fulfilled in the latter days; which covenant the Lord
made to our father Abraham, saying: In thy seed shall all the
kindreds of the earth be blessed.

1 Nephi 15:19
 19 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, spake much unto them
concerning these things; yea, I spake unto them concerning the
restoration of the Jews in the latter days.

1 Nephi 15:20
 20 And I did rehearse unto them the words of Isaiah, who spake
concerning the restoration of the Jews, or of the house of
Israel; and after they were restored they should no more be
confounded, neither should they be scattered again. And it came
to pass that I did speak many words unto my brethren, that they
were pacified and did humble themselves before the Lord.

1 Nephi 15:21
 21 And it came to pass that they did speak unto me again,
saying: What meaneth this thing which our father saw in a dream?
What meaneth the tree which he saw?

1 Nephi 15:22
 22 And I said unto them: It was a representation of the tree of
life.

1 Nephi 15:23
 23 And they said unto me: What meaneth the rod of iron which our
father saw, that led to the tree?

1 Nephi 15:24
 24 And I said unto them that it was the word of God, and whose
would hearken unto the word of God, and would hold fast unto it,
they would never perish; neither could the temptations and the
fiery darts of the adversary overpower them unto blindness, to
lead them away to destruction.

1 Nephi 15:25
 25 Wherefore, I, Nephi, did exhort them to give heed unto the
word of the Lord; yea, I did exhort them with all the energies of
my soul, and with all the faculty which I possessed, that they
would give heed to the word of God and remember to keep his
commandments always in all things.

1 Nephi 15:26
 26 And they said unto me: What meaneth the river of water which
our father saw?

1 Nephi 15:27
 27 And I said unto them that the water which my father saw was
filthiness; and so much was his mind swallowed up in other things
that he beheld not the filthiness of the water.

1 Nephi 15:28
 28 And I said unto them that it was an awful gulf, which
separated the wicked from the tree of life, and also from the
saints of God.

1 Nephi 15:29
 29 And I said unto them that it was a representation of that
awful hell, which the angel said unto me was prepared for the
wicked.

1 Nephi 15:30
 30 And I said unto them that our father also saw that the
justice of God did also divide the wicked from the righteous; and
the brightness thereof was like unto the brightness of a flaming
fire, which ascendeth up unto God forever and ever, and hath no
end.

1 Nephi 15:31
 31 And they said unto me: Doth this thing mean the torment of
the body in the days of probation, or doth it mean the final
state of the soul after the death of the temporal body, or doth
it speak of the things which are temporal?

1 Nephi 15:32
 32 And it came to pass that I said unto them that it was a
representation of things both temporal and spiritual; for the day
should come that they must be judged of their works, yea, even
the works which were done by the temporal body in their days of
probation.

1 Nephi 15:33
 33 Wherefore, if they should die in their wickedness they must
be cast off also, as to the things which are spiritual, which are
pertaining to righteousness; wherefore, they must be brought to
stand before God, to be judged of their works; and if their works
have been filthiness they must needs be filthy; and if they be
filthy it must needs be that they cannot dwell in the kingdom of
God; if so, the kingdom of God must be filthy also.

1 Nephi 15:34
 34 But behold, I say unto you, the kingdom of God is not filthy,
and there cannot any unclean thing enter into the kingdom of God;
wherefore there must needs be a place of filthiness prepared for
that which is filthy.

1 Nephi 15:35
 35 And there is a place prepared, yea, even that awful hell of
which I have spoken, and the devil is the preparator of it;
wherefore the final state of the souls of men is to dwell in the
kingdom of God, or to be cast out because of that justice of
which I have spoken.

1 Nephi 15:36
 36 Wherefore, the wicked are rejected from the righteous, and
also from that tree of life, whose fruit is most precious and
most desirable above all other fruits; yea, and it is the
greatest of all the gifts of God. And thus I spake unto my
brethren. Amen.

1 Nephi 16
Chapter 16

1 Nephi 16:1
 1 And now it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had made an end
of speaking to my brethren, behold they said unto me: Thou hast
declared unto us hard things, more than we are able to bear.

1 Nephi 16:2
 2 And it came to pass that I said unto them that I knew that I
had spoken hard things against the wicked, according to the
truth; and the righteous have I justified, and testified that
they should be lifted up at the last day; wherefore, the guilty
taketh the truth to be hard, for it cutteth them to the very
center.

1 Nephi 16:3
 3 And now my brethren, if ye were righteous and were willing to
hearken to the truth, and give heed unto it, that ye might walk
uprightly before God, then ye would not murmur because of the
truth, and say: Thou speakest hard things against us.

1 Nephi 16:4
 4 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did exhort my brethren,
with all diligence, to keep the commandments of the Lord.

1 Nephi 16:5
 5 And it came to pass that they did humble themselves before the
Lord; insomuch that I had joy and great hopes of them, that they
would walk in the paths of righteousness.

1 Nephi 16:6
 6 Now, all these things were said and done as my father dwelt in
a tent in the valley which he called Lemuel.

1 Nephi 16:7
 7 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, took one of the daughters
of Ishmael to wife; and also, my brethren took of the daughters
of Ishmael to wife; and also Zoram took the eldest daughter of
Ishmael to wife.

1 Nephi 16:8
 8 And thus my father had fulfilled all the commandments of the
Lord which had been given unto him.  And also, I, Nephi, had been
blessed of the Lord exceedingly.

1 Nephi 16:9
 9 And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord spake unto my
father by night, and commanded him that on the morrow he should
take his journey into the wilderness.

1 Nephi 16:10
 10 And it came to pass that as my father arose in the morning,
and went forth to the tent door, to his great astonishment he
beheld upon the ground a round ball of curious workmanship; and
it was of fine brass.  And within the ball were two spindles; and
the one pointed the way whither we should go into the wilderness.

1 Nephi 16:11
 11 And it came to pass that we did gather together whatsoever
things we should carry into the wilderness, and all the remainder
of our provisions which the Lord had given unto us; and we did
take seed of every kind that we might carry into the wilderness.

1 Nephi 16:12
 12 And it came to pass that we did take our tents and depart
into the wilderness, across the river Laman.

1 Nephi 16:13
 13 And it came to pass that we traveled for the space of four
days, nearly a south-southeast direction, and we did pitch our
tents again; and we did call the name of the place Shazer.

1 Nephi 16:14
 14 And it came to pass that we did take our bows and our arrows,
and go forth into the wilderness to slay food for our families;
and after we had slain food for our families we did return again
to our families in the wilderness, to the place of Shazer.  And
we did go forth again in the wilderness, following the same
direction, keeping in the most fertile parts of the wilderness,
which were in the borders near the Red Sea.

1 Nephi 16:15
 15 And it came to pass that we did travel for the space of many
days, slaying food by the way, with our bows and our arrows and
our stones and our slings.

1 Nephi 16:16
 16 And we did follow the directions of the ball, which led us in
the more fertile parts of the wilderness.

1 Nephi 16:17
 17 And after we had traveled for the space of many days, we did
pitch our tents for the space of a time, that we might again rest
ourselves and obtain food for our families.

1 Nephi 16:18
 18 And it came to pass that as I, Nephi, went forth to slay
food, behold, I did break my bow, which was made of fine steel;
and after I did break my bow, behold, my brethren were angry with
me because of the loss of my bow, for we did obtain no food.

1 Nephi 16:19
 19 And it came to pass that we did return without food to our
families, and being much fatigued, because of their journeying,
they did suffer much for the want of food.

1 Nephi 16:20
 20 And it came to pass that Laman and Lemuel and the sons of
Ishmael did begin to murmur exceedingly, because of their
sufferings and afflictions in the wilderness; and also my father
began to murmur against the Lord his God; yea, and they were all
exceedingly sorrowful, even that they did murmur against the
Lord.

1 Nephi 16:21
 21 Now it came to pass that I, Nephi, having been afflicted with
my brethren because of the loss of my bow, and their bows having
lost their springs, it began to be exceedingly difficult, yea,
insomuch that we could obtain no food.

1 Nephi 16:22
 22 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did speak much unto my
brethren, because they had hardened their hearts again, even unto
complaining against the Lord their God.

1 Nephi 16:23
 23 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did make out of wood a
bow, and out of a straight stick, an arrow; wherefore, I did arm
myself with a bow and an arrow, with a sling and with stones. 
And I said unto my father: Whither shall I go to obtain food?

1 Nephi 16:24
 24 And it came to pass that he did inquire of the Lord, for they
had humbled themselves because of my words; for I did say many
things unto them in the energy of my soul.

1 Nephi 16:25
 25 And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord came unto my
father; and he was truly chastened because of his murmuring
against the Lord, insomuch that he was brought down into the
depths of sorrow.

1 Nephi 16:26
 26 And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord said unto him:
Look upon the ball, and behold the things which are written.

1 Nephi 16:27
 27 And it came to pass that when my father beheld the things
which were written upon the ball, he did fear and tremble
exceedingly, and also my brethren and the sons of Ishmael and our
wives.

1 Nephi 16:28
 28 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld the pointers which
were in the ball, that they did work according to the faith and
diligence and heed which we did give unto them.

1 Nephi 16:29
 29 And there was also written upon them a new writing, which was
plain to be read, which did give us understanding concerning the
ways of the Lord; and it was written and changed from time to
time, according to the faith and diligence which we gave unto it.

And thus we see that by small means the Lord can bring about
great things.

1 Nephi 16:30
 30 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did go forth up into the
top of the mountain, according to the directions which were given
upon the ball.

1 Nephi 16:31
 31 And it came to pass that I did slay wild beasts, insomuch
that I did obtain food for our families.

1 Nephi 16:32
 32 And it came to pass that I did return to our tents, bearing
the beasts which I had slain; and now when they beheld that I had
obtained food, how great was their joy!  And it came to pass that
they did humble themselves before the Lord, and did give thanks
unto him.

1 Nephi 16:33
 33 And it came to pass that we did again take our journey,
traveling nearly the same course as in the beginning; and after
we had traveled for the space of many days we did pitch our tents
again, that we might tarry for the space of a time.

1 Nephi 16:34
 34 And it came to pass that Ishmael died, and was buried in the
place which was called Nahom.

1 Nephi 16:35
 35 And it came to pass that the daughters of Ishmael did mourn
exceedingly, because of the loss of their father, and because of
their afflictions in the wilderness; and they did murmur against
my father, because he had brought them out of the land of
Jerusalem, saying: Our father is dead; yea, and we have wandered
much in the wilderness, and we have suffered much affliction,
hunger, thirst, and fatigue; and after all these sufferings we
must perish in the wilderness with hunger.

1 Nephi 16:36
 36 And thus they did murmur against my father, and also against
me; and they were desirous to return again to Jerusalem.

1 Nephi 16:37
 37 And Laman said unto Lemuel and also unto the sons of Ishmael:
Behold, let us slay our father, and also our brother Nephi, who
has taken it upon him to be our ruler and our teacher, who are
his elder brethren.

1 Nephi 16:38
 38 Now, he says that the Lord has talked with him, and also that
angels have ministered unto him.  But behold, we know that he
lies unto us; and he tells us these things, and he worketh many
things by his cunning arts, that he may deceive our eyes,
thinking, perhaps, that he may lead us away into some strange
wilderness; and after he has led us away, he has thought to make
himself a king and a ruler over us, that he may do with us
according to his will and pleasure.  And after this manner did my
brother Laman stir up their hearts to anger.

1 Nephi 16:39
 39 And it came to pass that the Lord was with us, yea, even the
voice of the Lord came and did speak many words unto them, and
did chasten them exceedingly; and after they were chastened by
the voice of the Lord they did turn away their anger, and did
repent of their sins, insomuch that the Lord did bless us again
with food, that we did not perish.

1 Nephi 17
Chapter 17

1 Nephi 17:1
 1 And it came to pass that we did again take our journey in the
wilderness; and we did travel nearly eastward from that time
forth.  And we did travel and wade through much affliction in the
wilderness; and our women did bear children in the wilderness.

1 Nephi 17:2
 2 And so great were the blessings of the Lord upon us, that
while we did live upon raw meat in the wilderness, our women did
give plenty of suck for their children, and were strong, yea,
even like unto the men; and they began to bear their journeyings
without murmurings.

1 Nephi 17:3
 3 And thus we see that the commandments of God must be
fulfilled.  And if it so be that the children of men keep the
commandments of God he doth nourish them, and strengthen them,
and provide means whereby they can accomplish the thing which he
has commanded them; wherefore, he did provide means for us while
we did sojourn in the wilderness.

1 Nephi 17:4
 4 And we did sojourn for the space of many years, yea, even
eight years in the wilderness.

1 Nephi 17:5
 5 And we did come to the land which we called Bountiful, because
of its much fruit and also wild honey; and all these things were
prepared of the Lord that we might not perish.  And we beheld the
sea, which we called Irreantum, which, being interpreted, is many
waters.

1 Nephi 17:6
 6 And it came to pass that we did pitch our tents by the
seashore; and notwithstanding we had suffered many afflictions
and much difficulty, yea, even so much that we cannot write them
all, we were exceedingly rejoiced when we came to the seashore;
and we called the place Bountiful, because of its much fruit.

1 Nephi 17:7
 7 And it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had been in the land
of Bountiful for the space of many days, the voice of the Lord
came unto me, saying: Arise, and get thee into the mountain.  And
it came to pass that I arose and went up into the mountain, and
cried unto the Lord.

1 Nephi 17:8
 8 And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto me, saying: Thou
shalt construct a ship, after the manner which I shall show thee,
that I may carry thy people across these waters.

1 Nephi 17:9
 9 And I said: Lord, whither shall I go that I may find ore to
molten, that I may make tools to construct the ship after the
manner which thou hast shown unto me?

1 Nephi 17:10
 10 And it came to pass that the Lord told me whither I should go
to find ore, that I might make tools.

1 Nephi 17:11
 11 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did make a bellows
wherewith to blow the fire, of the skins of beasts; and after I
had made a bellows, that I might have wherewith to blow the fire,
I did smite two stones together that I might make fire.

1 Nephi 17:12
 12 For the Lord had not hitherto suffered that we should make
much fire, as we journeyed in the wilderness; for he said:

