A seer shall the Lord my
God raise up, who shall be a choice seer unto the fruit of my
loins.


Thus saith the Lord unto me: A choice
seer will I raise up out of the fruit of thy loins; and he shall
be esteemed highly among the fruit of thy loins.  And unto him
will I give commandment that he shall do a work for the fruit of
thy loins, his brethren, which shall be of great worth unto them,
even to the bringing of them to the knowledge of the covenants
which I have made with thy fathers.

2 Nephi 3:8
 8 And I will give unto him a commandment that he shall do none
other work, save the work which I shall command him.  And I will
make him great in mine eyes; for he shall do my work.

2 Nephi 3:9
 9 And he shall be great like unto Moses, whom I have said I
would raise up unto you, to deliver my people, O house of Israel.

2 Nephi 3:10
 10 And Moses will I raise up, to deliver thy people out of the
land of Egypt.

2 Nephi 3:11
 11 But a seer will I raise up out of the fruit of thy loins; and
unto him will I give power to bring forth my word unto the seed
of thy loins--and not to the bringing forth my word only, saith
the Lord, but to the convincing them of my word, which shall have
already gone forth among them.

2 Nephi 3:12
 12 Wherefore, the fruit of thy loins shall write; and the fruit
of the loins of Judah shall write; and that which shall be
written by the fruit of thy loins, and also that which shall be
written by the fruit of the loins of Judah, shall grow together,
unto the confounding of false doctrines and laying down of
contentions, and establishing peace among the fruit of thy loins,
and bringing them to the knowledge of their fathers in the latter
days, and also to the knowledge of my covenants, saith the Lord.

2 Nephi 3:13
 13 And out of weakness he shall be made strong, in that day when
my work shall commence among all my people, unto the restoring
thee, O house of Israel, saith the Lord.

Behold, that seer will
the Lord bless; and they that seek to destroy him shall be
confounded; for this promise, which I have obtained of the Lord,
of the fruit of my loins, shall be fulfilled.  Behold, I am sure
of the fulfilling of this promise;

2 Nephi 3:15
 15 And his name shall be called after me; and it shall be after
the name of his father.  And he shall be like unto me; for the
thing, which the Lord shall bring forth by his hand, by the power
of the Lord shall bring my people unto salvation.

2 Nephi 3:16
 16 Yea, thus prophesied Joseph: I am sure of this thing, even as
I am sure of the promise of Moses; for the Lord hath said unto
me, I will preserve thy seed forever.

2 Nephi 3:17
 17 And the Lord hath said: I will raise up a Moses; and I will
give power unto him in a rod; and I will give judgment unto him
in writing.  Yet I will not loose his tongue, that he shall speak
much, for I will not make him mighty in speaking.  But I will
write unto him my law, by the finger of mine own hand; and I will
make a spokesman for him.

2 Nephi 3:18
 18 And the Lord said unto me also: I will raise up unto the
fruit of thy loins; and I will make for him a spokesman.  And I,
behold, I will give unto him that he shall write the writing of
the fruit of thy loins, unto the fruit of thy loins; and the
spokesman of thy loins shall declare it.

2 Nephi 3:19
 19 And the words which he shall write shall be the words which
are expedient in my wisdom should go forth unto the fruit of thy
loins.  And it shall be as if the fruit of thy loins had cried
unto them from the dust; for I know their faith.

2 Nephi 3:20
 20 And they shall cry from the dust; yea, even repentance unto
their brethren, even after many generations have gone by them. 
And it shall come to pass that their cry shall go, even according
to the simpleness of their words.

2 Nephi 3:21
 21 Because of their faith their words shall proceed forth out of
my mouth unto their brethren who are the fruit of thy loins; and
the weakness of their words will I make strong in their faith,
unto the remembering of my covenant which I made unto thy
fathers.








