
Mormon 8
Chapter 8

Mormon 8:1
 1 Behold I, Moroni, do finish the record of my father, Mormon. 
Behold, I have but few things to write, which things I have been
commanded by my father.

Mormon 8:2
 2 And now it came to pass that after the great and tremendous
battle at Cumorah, behold, the Nephites who had escaped into the
country southward were hunted by the Lamanites, until they were
all destroyed.

Mormon 8:3
 3 And my father also was killed by them, and I even remain alone
to write the sad tale of the destruction of my people.  But
behold, they are gone, and I fulfil the commandment of my father.

And whether they will slay me, I know not.

Mormon 8:4
 4 Therefore I will write and hide up the records in the earth;
and whither I go it mattereth not.

Mormon 8:5
 5 Behold, my father hath made this record, and he hath written
the intent thereof.  And behold, I would write it also if I had
room upon the plates, but I have not; and ore I have none, for I
am alone.  My father hath been slain in battle, and all my
kinsfolk, and I have not friends nor whither to go; and how long
the Lord will suffer that I may live I know not.

Mormon 8:6
 6 Behold, four hundred years have passed away since the coming
of our Lord and Savior.

Mormon 8:7
 7 And behold, the Lamanites have hunted my people, the Nephites,
down from city to city and from place to place, even until they
are no more; and great has been their fall; yea, great and
marvelous is the destruction of my people, the Nephites.

Mormon 8:8
 8 And behold, it is the hand of the Lord which hath done it. 
And behold also, the Lamanites are at war one with another; and
the whole face of this land is one continual round of murder and
bloodshed; and no one knoweth the end of the war.

Mormon 8:9
 9 And now, behold, I say no more concerning them, for there are
none save it be the Lamanites and robbers that do exist upon the
face of the land.

Mormon 8:10
 10 And there are none that do know the true God save it be the
disciples of Jesus, who did tarry in the land until the
wickedness of the people was so great that the Lord would not
suffer them to remain with the people; and whether they be upon
the face of the land no man knoweth.

Mormon 8:11
 11 But behold, my father and I have seen them, and they have
ministered unto us.

Mormon 8:12
 12 And whoso receiveth this record, and shall not condemn it
because of the imperfections which are in it, the same shall know
of greater things than these.  Behold, I am Moroni; and were it
possible, I would make all things known unto you.

Mormon 8:13
 13 Behold, I make an end of speaking concerning this people.  I
am the son of Mormon, and my father was a descendant of Nephi.

Mormon 8:14
 14 And I am the same who hideth up this record unto the Lord;
the plates thereof are of no worth, because of the commandment of
the Lord.  For he truly saith that no one shall have them to get
gain; but the record thereof is of great worth; and whoso shall
bring it to light, him will the Lord bless.

Mormon 8:15
 15 For none can have power to bring it to light save it be given
him of God; for God wills that it shall be done with an eye
single to his glory, or the welfare of the ancient and long
dispersed covenant people of the Lord.

Mormon 8:16
 16 And blessed be he that shall bring this thing to light; for
it shall be brought out of darkness unto light, according to the
word of God; yea, it shall be brought out of the earth, and it
shall shine forth out of darkness, and come unto the knowledge of
the people; and it shall be done by the power of God.

Mormon 8:17
 17 And if there be faults they be the faults of a man.  But
behold, we know no fault; nevertheless God knoweth all things;
therefore, he that condemneth, let him be aware lest he shall be
in danger of hell fire.

Mormon 8:18
 18 And he that saith: Show unto me, or ye shall be smitten--let
him beware lest he commandeth that which is forbidden of the
Lord.

Mormon 8:19
 19 For behold, the same that judgeth rashly shall be judged
rashly again; for according to his works shall his wages be;
therefore, he that smiteth shall be smitten again, of the Lord.

Mormon 8:20
 20 Behold what the scripture says--man shall not smite, neither
shall he judge; for judgment is mine, saith the Lord, and
vengeance is mine also, and I will repay.

Mormon 8:21
 21 And he that shall breathe out wrath and strifes against the
work of the Lord, and against the covenant people of the Lord who
are the house of Israel, and shall say: We will destroy the work
of the Lord, and the Lord will not remember his covenant which he
hath made unto the house of Israel--the same is in danger to be
hewn down and cast into the fire;

Mormon 8:22
 22 For the eternal purposes of the Lord shall roll on, until all
his promises shall be fulfilled.

Mormon 8:23
 23 Search the prophecies of Isaiah.  Behold, I cannot write
them.  Yea, behold I say unto you, that those saints who have
gone before me, who have possessed this land, shall cry, yea,
even from the dust will they cry unto the Lord; and as the Lord
liveth he will remember the covenant which he hath made with
them.

Mormon 8:24
 24 And he knoweth their prayers, that they were in behalf of
their brethren.  And he knoweth their faith, for in his name
could they remove mountains; and in his name could they cause the
earth to shake; and by the power of his word did they cause
prisons to tumble to the earth; yea, even the fiery furnace could
not harm them, neither wild beasts nor poisonous serpents,
because of the power of his word.

Mormon 8:25
 25 And behold, their prayers were also in behalf of him that the
Lord should suffer to bring these things forth.

Mormon 8:26
 26 And no one need say they shall not come, for they surely
shall, for the Lord hath spoken it; for out of the earth shall
they come, by the hand of the Lord, and none can stay it; and it
shall come in a day when it shall be said that miracles are done
away; and it shall come even as if one should speak from the
dead.

Mormon 8:27
 27 And it shall come in a day when the blood of saints shall cry
unto the Lord, because of secret combinations and the works of
darkness.

Mormon 8:28
 28 Yea, it shall come in a day when the power of God shall be
denied, and churches become defiled and be lifted up in the pride
of their hearts; yea, even in a day when leaders of churches and
teachers shall rise in the pride of their hearts, even to the
envying of them who belong to their churches.

Mormon 8:29
 29 Yea, it shall come in a day when there shall be heard of
fires, and tempests, and vapors of smoke in foreign lands;

Mormon 8:30
 30 And there shall also be heard of wars, rumors of wars, and
earthquakes in divers places.

Mormon 8:31
 31 Yea, it shall come in a day when there shall be great
pollutions upon the face of the earth; there shall be murders,
and robbing, and lying, and deceivings, and whoredoms, and all
manner of abominations; when there shall be many who will say, Do
this, or do that, and it mattereth not, for the Lord will uphold
such at the last day.  But wo unto such for they are in the gall
of bitterness and in the bonds of iniquity.

Mormon 8:32
 32 Yea, it shall come in a day when there shall be churches
built up that shall say: Come unto me, and for your money you
shall be forgiven of your sins.

Mormon 8:33
 33 O ye wicked and perverse and stiffnecked people, why have ye
built up churches unto yourselves to get gain?  Why have ye
transfigured the holy word of God, that ye might bring damnation
upon your souls?  Behold, look ye unto the revelations of God;
for behold, the time cometh at that day when all these things
must be fulfilled.

Mormon 8:34
 34 Behold, the Lord hath shown unto me great and marvelous
things concerning that which must shortly come, at that day when
these things shall come forth among you.

Mormon 8:35
 35 Behold, I speak unto you as if ye were present, and yet ye
are not.  But behold, Jesus Christ hath shown you unto me, and I
know your doing.

Mormon 8:36
 36 And I know that ye do walk in the pride of your hearts; and
there are none save a few only who do not lift themselves up in
the pride of their hearts, unto the wearing of very fine apparel,
unto envying, and strifes, and malice, and persecutions, and all
manner of iniquities; and your churches, yea, even every one,
have become polluted because of the pride of your hearts.

Mormon 8:37
 37 For behold, ye do love money, and your substance, and your
fine apparel, and the adorning of your churches, more than ye
love the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted.

Mormon 8:38
 38 O ye pollutions, ye hypocrites, ye teachers, who sell
yourselves for that which will canker, why have ye polluted the
holy church of God?  Why are ye ashamed to take upon you the name
of Christ?  Why do ye not think that greater is the value of an
endless happiness than that misery which never dies--because of
the praise of the world?

Mormon 8:39
 39 Why do ye adorn yourselves with that which hath no life, and
yet suffer the hungry, and the needy, and the naked, and the sick
and the afflicted to pass by you, and notice them not?

Mormon 8:40
 40 Yea, why do ye build up your secret abominations to get gain,
and cause that widows should mourn before the Lord, and also
orphans to mourn before the Lord, and also the blood of their
fathers and their husbands to cry unto the Lord from the ground,
for vengeance upon your heads?

Mormon 8:41
 41 Behold, the sword of vengeance hangeth over you; and the time
soon cometh that he avengeth the blood of the saints upon you,
for he will not suffer their cries any longer.

Mormon 9
Chapter 9

Mormon 9:1
 1 And now, I speak also concerning those who do not believe in
Christ.

Mormon 9:2
 2 Behold, will ye believe in the day of your visitation--behold,
when the Lord shall come, yea, even that great day when the earth
shall be rolled together as a scroll, and the elements shall melt
with fervent heat, yea, in that great day when ye shall be
brought to stand before the Lamb of God--then will ye say that
there is no God?

Mormon 9:3
 3 Then will ye longer deny the Christ, or can ye behold the Lamb
of God?  Do ye suppose that ye shall dwell with him under a
consciousness of your guilt?  Do ye suppose that ye could be
happy to dwell with that holy Being, when your souls are racked
with a consciousness of guilt that ye have ever abused his laws?

Mormon 9:4
 4 Behold, I say unto you that ye would be more miserable to
dwell with a holy and just God, under a consciousness of your
filthiness before him, than ye would to dwell with the damned
souls in hell.

Mormon 9:5
 5 For behold, when ye shall be brought to see your nakedness
before God, and also the glory of God, and the holiness of Jesus
Christ, it will kindle a flame of unquenchable fire upon you.

Mormon 9:6
 6 O then ye unbelieving, turn ye unto the Lord; cry mightily
unto the Father in the name of Jesus, that perhaps ye may be
found spotless, pure, fair, and white, having been cleansed by
the blood of the Lamb, at that great and last day.

Mormon 9:7
 7 And again I speak unto you who deny the revelations of God,
and say that they are done away, that there are no revelations,
nor prophecies, nor gifts, nor healing, nor speaking with
tongues, and the interpretation of tongues;

Mormon 9:8
 8 Behold I say unto you, he that denieth these things knoweth
not the gospel of Christ; yea, he has not read the scriptures; if
so, he does not understand them.

Mormon 9:9
 9 For do we not read that God is the same yesterday, today, and
forever, and in him there is no variableness neither shadow of
changing?

Mormon 9:10
 10 And now if ye have imagined up unto yourselves a god who doth
vary, and in whom there is shadow of changing, then have ye
imagined up unto yourselves a god who is not God of miracles.

Mormon 9:11
 11 But behold, I will show unto you a God of miracles, even the
God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob; and
it is that same God who created the heavens and the earth, and
all things that in them are.

Mormon 9:12
 12 Behold he created Adam, and by Adam came the fall of man. 
And because of the fall of man came Jesus Christ, even the Father
and the Son; and because of Jesus Christ came the redemption of
man.

Mormon 9:13
 13 And because of the redemption of man, which came by Jesus
Christ, they are brought back into the presence of the Lord; yea,
this is wherein all men are redeemed, because the death of Christ
bringeth to pass the resurrection, which bringeth to pass a
redemption from an endless sleep, from which sleep all men shall
be awakened by the power of God when the trump shall sound; and
they shall come forth, both small and great, and all shall stand
before his bar, being redeemed and loosed from this eternal band
of death, which death is a temporal death.

Mormon 9:14
 14 And then cometh the judgment of the Holy One upon them; and
then cometh the time that he that is filthy shall be filthy
still; and he that is righteous shall be righteous still; he that
is happy shall be happy still; and he that is unhappy shall be
unhappy still.

Mormon 9:15
 15 And now, O all ye that have imagined up unto yourselves a god
who can do no miracles, I would ask of you, have all these things
passed, of which I have spoken?  Has the end come yet?  Behold I
say unto you, Nay; and God has not ceased to be a God of
miracles.

Mormon 9:16
 16 Behold, are not the things that God hath wrought marvelous in
our eyes?  Yea, and who can comprehend the marvelous works of
God?

Mormon 9:17
 17 Who shall say that it was not a miracle that by his word the
heaven and the earth should be; and by the power of his word man
was created of the dust of the earth; and by the power of his
word have miracles been wrought?

Mormon 9:18
 18 And who shall say that Jesus Christ did not many mighty
miracles?  And there were many mighty miracles wrought by the
hands of the apostles.

Mormon 9:19
 19 And if there were miracles wrought then, why has God ceased
to be a God of miracles and yet be an unchangeable Being?  And
behold, I say unto you he changeth not; if so he would cease to
be God; and he ceaseth not to be God, and is a God of miracles.

Mormon 9:20
 20 And the reason why he ceaseth to do miracles among the
children of men is because that they dwindle in unbelief, and
depart from the right way, and know not the God in whom they
should trust.

Mormon 9:21
 21 Behold, I say unto you that whoso believeth in Christ,
doubting nothing, whatsoever he shall ask the Father in the name
of Christ it shall be granted him; and this promise is unto all,
even unto the ends of the earth.

Mormon 9:22
 22 For behold, thus said Jesus Christ, the Son of God, unto his
disciples who should tarry, yea, and also to all his disciples,
in the hearing of the multitude: Go ye into all the world, and
preach the gospel to every creature;

Mormon 9:23
 23 And he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, but he
that believeth not shall be damned;

Mormon 9:24
 24 And these signs shall follow them that believe--in my name
shall they cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues;
they shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing
it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick and they
shall recover;

Mormon 9:25
 25 And whosoever shall believe in my name, doubting nothing,
unto him will I confirm all my words, even unto the ends of the
earth.

Mormon 9:26
 26 And now, behold, who can stand against the works of the Lord?

Who can deny his sayings?  Who will rise up against the almighty
power of the Lord?  Who will despise the works of the Lord?  Who
will despise the children of Christ?  Behold, all ye who are
despisers of the works of the Lord, for ye shall wonder and
perish.

Mormon 9:27
 27 O then despise not, and wonder not, but hearken unto the
words of the Lord, and ask the Father in the name of Jesus for
what things soever ye shall stand in need.  Doubt not, but be
believing, and begin as in times of old, and come unto the Lord
with all your heart, and work out your own salvation with fear
and trembling before him.

Mormon 9:28
 28 Be wise in the days of your probation; strip yourselves of
all uncleanness; ask not, that ye may consume it on your lusts,
but ask with a firmness unshaken, that ye will yield to no
temptation, but that ye will serve the true and living God.

Mormon 9:29
 29 See that ye are not baptized unworthily; see that ye partake
not of the sacrament of Christ unworthily; but see that ye do all
things in worthiness, and do it in the name of Jesus Christ, the
Son of the living God; and if ye do this, and endure to the end,
ye will in nowise be cast out.

Mormon 9:30
 30 Behold, I speak unto you as though I spake from the dead; for
I know that ye shall have my words.

Mormon 9:31
 31 Condemn me not because of mine imperfection, neither my
father, because of his imperfection, neither them who have
written before him; but rather give thanks unto God that he hath
made manifest unto you our imperfections, that ye may learn to be
more wise than we have been.

Mormon 9:32
 32 And now, behold, we have written this record according to our
knowledge, in the characters which are called among us the
reformed Egyptian, being handed down and altered by us, according
to our manner of speech.

Mormon 9:33
 33 And if our plates had been sufficiently large we should have
written in Hebrew; but the Hebrew hath been altered by us also;
and if we could have written in Hebrew, behold, ye would have had
no imperfection in our record.

Mormon 9:34
 34 But the Lord knoweth the things which we have written, and
also that none other people knoweth our language; and because
that none other people knoweth our language, therefore he hath
prepared means for the interpretation thereof.

Mormon 9:35
 35 And these things are written that we may rid our garments of
the blood of our brethren, who have dwindled in unbelief.

Mormon 9:36
 36 And behold, these things which we have desired concerning our
brethren, yea, even their restoration to the knowledge of Christ,
are according to the prayers of all the saints who have dwelt in
the land.

Mormon 9:37
 37 And may the Lord Jesus Christ grant that their prayers may be
answered according to their faith; and may God the Father
remember the covenant which he hath made with the house of
Israel; and may he bless them forever, through faith on the name
of Jesus Christ.  Amen.


