Behold, I am Limhi, the son of Noah,
who was the son of Zeniff, who came up out of the land of
Zarahemla to inherit this land, which was the land of their
fathers, who was made a king by the voice of the people.

Mosiah 7:10
 10 And now, I desire to know the cause whereby ye were so bold
as to come near the walls of the city, when I, myself, was with
my guards without the gate?

Mosiah 7:11
 11 And now, for this cause have I suffered that ye should be
preserved, that I might inquire of you, or else I should have
caused that my guards should have put you to death.  Ye are
permitted to speak.




Mosiah 7:14
 14 And now, it came to pass that after Limhi had heard the words
of Ammon, he was exceedingly glad, and said: Now, I know of a
surety that my brethren who were in the land of Zarahemla are yet
alive.  And now, I will rejoice; and on the morrow I will cause
that my people shall rejoice also.

Mosiah 7:15
 15 For behold, we are in bondage to the Lamanites, and are taxed
with a tax which is grievous to be borne.  And now, behold, our
brethren will deliver us out of our bondage, or out of the hands
of the Lamanites, and we will be their slaves; for it is better
that we be slaves to the Nephites than to pay tribute to the king
of the Lamanites.




O ye, my
people, lift up your heads and be comforted; for behold, the time
is at hand, or is not far distant, when we shall no longer be in
subjection to our enemies, notwithstanding our many strugglings,
which have been in vain; yet I trust there remaineth an effectual
struggle to be made.

Mosiah 7:19
 19 Therefore, lift up your heads, and rejoice, and put your
trust in God, in that God who was the God of Abraham, and Isaac,
and Jacob; and also, that God who brought the children of Israel
out of the land of Egypt, and caused that they should walk
through the Red Sea on dry ground, and fed them with manna that
they might not perish in the wilderness; and many more things did
he do for them.

Mosiah 7:20
 20 And again, that same God has brought our fathers out of the
land of Jerusalem, and has kept and preserved his people even
until now; and behold, it is because of our iniquities and
abominations that he has brought us into bondage.

Mosiah 7:21
 21 And ye all are witnesses this day, that Zeniff, who was made
king over this people, he being over-zealous to inherit the land
of his fathers, therefore being deceived by the cunning and
craftiness of king Laman, who having entered into a treaty with
king Zeniff, and having yielded up into his hands the possessions
of a part of the land, or even the city of Lehi-Nephi, and the
city of Shilom; and the land round about--

Mosiah 7:22
 22 And all this he did, for the sole purpose of bringing this
people into subjection or into bondage.  And behold, we at this
time do pay tribute to the king of the Lamanites, to the amount
of one half of our corn, and our barley, and even all our grain
of every kind, and one half of the increase of our flocks and our
herds; and even one half of all we have or possess the king of
the Lamanites doth exact of us, or our lives.

Mosiah 7:23
 23 And now, is not this grievous to be borne?  And is not this,
our affliction, great?  Now behold, how great reason we have to
mourn.

Mosiah 7:24
 24 Yea, I say unto you, great are the reasons which we have to
mourn; for behold how many of our brethren have been slain, and
their blood has been spilt in vain, and all because of iniquity.

Mosiah 7:25
 25 For if this people had not fallen into transgression the Lord
would not have suffered that this great evil should come upon
them.  But behold, they would not hearken unto his words; but
there arose contentions among them, even so much that they did
shed blood among themselves.

Mosiah 7:26
 26 And a prophet of the Lord have they slain; yea, a chosen man
of God, who told them of their wickedness and abominations, and
prophesied of many things which are to come, yea, even the coming
of Christ.

Mosiah 7:27
 27 And because he said unto them that Christ was the God, the
Father of all things, and said that he should take upon him the
image of man, and it should be the image after which man was
created in the beginning; or in other words, he said that man was
created after the image of God, and that God should come down
among the children of men, and take upon him flesh and blood, and
go forth upon the face of the earth--

Mosiah 7:28
 28 And now, because he said this, they did put him to death; and
many more things did they do which brought down the wrath of God
upon them.  Therefore, who wondereth that they are in bondage,
and that they are smitten with sore afflictions?

Mosiah 7:29
 29 For behold, the Lord hath said: I will not succor my people
in the day of their transgression; but I will hedge up their ways
that they prosper not; and their doings shall be as a stumbling
block before them.

Mosiah 7:30
 30 And again, he saith: If my people shall sow filthiness they
shall reap the chaff thereof in the whirlwind; and the effect
thereof is poison.

Mosiah 7:31
 31 And again he saith: If my people shall sow filthiness they
shall reap the east wind, which bringeth immediate destruction.

Mosiah 7:32
 32 And now, behold, the promise of the Lord is fulfilled, and ye
are smitten and afflicted.

Mosiah 7:33
 33 But if ye will turn to the Lord with full purpose of heart,
and put your trust in him, and serve him with all diligence of
mind, if ye do this, he will, according to his own will and
pleasure, deliver you out of bondage.



Doubtless a great mystery is contained within these plates, and
these interpreters were doubtless prepared for the purpose of
unfolding all such mysteries to the children of men.

Mosiah 8:20
 20 O how marvelous are the works of the Lord, and how long doth
he suffer with his people; yea, and how blind and impenetrable
are the understandings of the children of men; for they will not
seek wisdom, neither do they desire that she should rule over
them!

Mosiah 8:21
 21 Yea, they are as a wild flock which fleeth from the shepherd,
and scattereth, and are driven, and are devoured by the beasts of
the forest.



Ye shall not slay him, but bring
him hither that I may see him.  And they brought him.  And Limhi
said unto him: What cause have ye to come up to war against my
people?  Behold, my people have not broken the oath that I made
unto you; therefore, why should ye break the oath which ye made
unto my people?