Lift up your heads and be of good
comfort, for I know of the covenant which ye have made unto me;
and I will covenant with my people and deliver them out of
bondage.

Mosiah 24:14
 14 And I will also ease the burdens which are put upon your
shoulders, that even you cannot feel them upon your backs, even
while you are in bondage; and this will I do that ye may stand as
witnesses for me hereafter, and that ye may know of a surety that
I, the Lord God, do visit my people in their afflictions.





Be of good comfort, for on the morrow I will deliver you out of
bondage.

Mosiah 24:17
 17 And he said unto Alma: Thou shalt go before this people, and
I will go with thee and deliver this people out of bondage.





Haste thee and get thou and
this people out of this land, for the Lamanites have awakened and
do pursue thee; therefore get thee out of this land, and I will
stop the Lamanites in this valley that they come no further in
pursuit of this people.






Mosiah 26:15
 15 Blessed art thou, Alma, and blessed are they who were
baptized in the waters of Mormon.  Thou art blessed because of
thy exceeding faith in the words alone of my servant Abinadi.

Mosiah 26:16
 16 And blessed are they because of their exceeding faith in the
words alone which thou hast spoken unto them.

Mosiah 26:17
 17 And blessed art thou because thou hast established a church
among this people; and they shall be established, and they shall
be my people.

Mosiah 26:18
 18 Yea, blessed is this people who are willing to bear my name;
for in my name shall they be called; and they are mine.

Mosiah 26:19
 19 And because thou hast inquired of me concerning the
transgressor, thou art blessed.

Mosiah 26:20
 20 Thou art my servant; and I covenant with thee that thou shalt
have eternal life; and thou shalt serve me and go forth in my
name, and shalt gather together my sheep.

Mosiah 26:21
 21 And he that will hear my voice shall be my sheep; and him
shall ye receive into the church, and him will I also receive.

Mosiah 26:22
 22 For behold, this is my church; whosoever is baptized shall be
baptized unto repentance.  And whomsoever ye receive shall
believe in my name; and him will I freely forgive.

Mosiah 26:23
 23 For it is I that taketh upon me the sins of the world; for it
is I that hath created them; and it is I that granteth unto him
that believeth unto the end a place at my right hand.

Mosiah 26:24
 24 For behold, in my name are they called; and if they know me
they shall come forth, and shall have a place eternally at my
right hand.

Mosiah 26:25
 25 And it shall come to pass that when the second trump shall
sound then shall they that never knew me come forth and shall
stand before me.

Mosiah 26:26
 26 And then shall they know that I am the Lord their God, that I
am their Redeemer; but they would not be redeemed.

Mosiah 26:27
 27 And then I will confess unto them that I never knew them; and
they shall depart into everlasting fire prepared for the devil
and his angels.

Mosiah 26:28
 28 Therefore I say unto you, that he that will not hear my
voice, the same shall ye not receive into my church, for him I
will not receive at the last day.

Mosiah 26:29
 29 Therefore I say unto you, Go; and whosoever transgresseth
against me, him shall ye judge according to the sins which he has
committed; and if he confess his sins before thee and me, and
repenteth in the sincerity of his heart, him shall ye forgive,
and I will forgive him also.

Mosiah 26:30
 30 Yea, and as often as my people repent will I forgive them
their trespasses against me.

Mosiah 26:31
 31 And ye shall also forgive one another your trespasses; for
verily I say unto you, he that forgiveth not his neighbor's
trespasses when he says that he repents, the same hath brought
himself under condemnation.

Mosiah 26:32
 32 Now I say unto you, Go; and whosoever will not repent of his
sins the same shall not be numbered among my people; and this
shall be observed from this time forward.




