
SECTION 136. 

The Word and Will of the Lord, given through President Brig- 
ham Young, at the Winter Quarters of the Camp of Israel, Omaha 
Nation, West Bank of Missouri Biver, near Council Bluffs, Iowa, 

January 14, 1847. Plan of organization for migration to the 

West — Admonitions to righteousness — The Lord to be praised both in 
times of joy and of sorrow — Needful that Joseph Smith the Prophet 
should have sealed his testimony with his blood. 

1. The Word and Will of the neers to prepare for putting in 
Lord concerning the Camp of spring crops. 
Israel in their journeyings to the 8. Let each company bear an 
"West* 'equal proportion, according to 

2 Let all the people of the the dividend of their property, in 
'Church of Jesus Christ of Latter- taking the poor, the widows, the 
day Saints, and those who jour- fatherless, and the families of 
ney with them, be organized into those who have g one Into the 
*«« «,4*i. « /&gt;svtranont QnH army, that the cries of the widow 
^mv^teB.^ha.^en^t^d and ^ he father iess come not up 
promise to keep all the c ommand- ^ f ne Lord 

ments and statutes of the Lord tWg people 

0U I ? 1 iL fc » „ v~ ~- 9. Let each company prepare 

3 ; L , et *]£ •companies be or- houses , and fields for raising 

ganized with captains of hun- ai for tnoge who are tQ re _ 

dreds, captains of fifties, and cap- main behind tWg season; and 

tains of tens, with a President thig lg the wiU Qf fhB Lord con . 

and his two counselors at their cerni his people 

head under the direction of the 1Q Let every man use aU hi8 

•Twelve Apostles. influence and property to remove 

4. And this shall be our cove- thig p e0 ple to the place where the 
nant— that we will walk in all the Lord ghall locate a . sta ke of Zion. 
ordinances of the Lord. n And if ye do this &gt;witn a 

5. Let each company provide pure heart, in all faithfulness, ye 
themselves with all the teams, s hall be blessed; you shall be 
wagons, provisions, clothing, and blessed in your flocks, and in your 
other necessaries for the journey, herds, and in your fields, and in 
that they can. your houses, and in your fami- 

6. When the companies are or- Hes. 

ganized let them go to with their 12. Let my servants Ezra T. 
might, to prepare for those who Benson and Erastus Snow organ- 
are to tarry. ize a company. 

7. Let each company, with their 13. And let my servants Orson 
captains and presidents, decide Pratt and Wilford Woodruff or- 
how many can go next spring; ganize a company. 

then choose out a sufficient num- 14. Also, let my servants 

ber of able-bodied and expert Amasa Lyman and George A. 

men, to take teams, seeds, and Smith organize a company. 

farming utensils, to go as pio- 15. And appoint presidents, and 

a, see a, sec. 1. b, Ex. 18:21 — 27. c, 107:24. d, 38:24 — 27. 42:30. 
e, see g, sec. 87; and e, sec. 82. 



DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS, 136. 



255 



captains of hundreds, and of fif- 
ties, and of tens. 

16. And let my servants that 
have been appointed go and teach 
this, my will, to the saints, that 
they may be ready to go to a land 
of peace. 

17. Go thy way and do as I 
have told you, and fear not thine 
enemies; for they shall not have 
power to stop my work. 

18. Zion shall be 'redeemed in 
mine own due time. 

19. And if any man shall seek 
to build up himself, and seeketh 
not my counsel, he shall have no 
power, and his folly shall be 
made manifest. 

20. Seek ye; and keep all your 
pledges one with another; and 
covet not that which is thy 
brother's. 

21. Keep yourselves from evil 
to take the "name of the Lord in 
vain, for I am the Lord your God, 
even the God of your fathers, the 
God of Abraham and of Isaac and 
of Jacob. 

22. I am he who led the chil- 
dren of Israel out of the land of 
Egypt; and my arm is stretched 
out in the last days to save my 
people Israel. 

23. Cease to ^contend one with 
another; cease to *speak evil one 
of another. 

24. Cease drunkenness; and 
let your words tend to edifying 
one another. 

25. If thou borrowest of thy 
neighbor, thou shalt restore that 
which thou hast borrowed; and 
if thou canst not repay then go 
straightway and tell thy neigh- 
bor, lest he condemn thee. 

26. If thou shalt find that 
which thy neighbor has lost, thou 
shalt make diligent search till 
thou shalt deliver it to him again. 



27. Thou shalt be diligent in 
preserving what thou hast, that 
thou mayest be a 'wise steward; 
for it is the free gift of the Lord 
thy God, and thou art his steward. 

28. If thou art merry, praise 
the Lord with singing, with music, 
with dancing, and with a prayer 
of praise and thanksgiving. 

29. If thou art sorrowful, call 
on the Lord thy God with suppli- 
cation, that your souls may be 
joyful. 

30. Fear not thine enemies, 
for they are in mine hands and I 
will do my pleasure with them. 

31. My people must be tried in 
all things, that they may be pre- 
pared to receive the glory that I 
have for them, even the glory of 
Zion; and he that will not *bear 
chastisement is not worthy of my 
kingdom. 

32. Let him that is ignorant 
learn wisdom by humbling him- 
self and calling upon the Lord 
his God, that his eyes may be 
opened that he may see, and his 
ears opened that he may hear; 

33. For my Spirit is sent forth 
into the world to enlighten the 
humble and contrite, and to the 
condemnation of the ungodly. 

34. Thy brethren have re- 
jected you and your testimony, 
even the nation that has driven 
you out; 

35. And now cometh the day 
of their calamity, even the days 
of sorrow, like a woman that is 
taken in travail; and their sor- 
row shall be great unless they 
speedily repent, yea, very speed- 
ily. 

36. For they killed the proph- 
ets, and them that were sent unto 
them; and they have shed 'inno- 
cent blood, which crieth from the 
ground against them. 



f, see h, sec. 103. g, 63:61 — 64. 

J t see o, sec. 42. k, 90:36. 97:26. 

1 Ne. 14:13. 22:14. 2 Ne. 5:16. Morm. 



h, 3 Ne. 11:29, 30. i, 20:54. 88:124. 
1, 58:53. 63:28 — 31. Rev. 18:24. 19:2. 
8:27, 40, 41. Eth. 8:22—24. 




256 



DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS, 136. 



37. Therefore, marvel not at 
these things, for ye are not yet 
pure; ye can not yet bear my 
glory; but ye shall behold it if 
ye are faithful in keeping all my 
words that I have given you, from 
the days of Adam to Abraham, 
from Abraham to Moses, from 
Moses to Jesus and his apostles, 
and from Jesus and his apostles 
to Joseph Smith, whom I did call 
upon by mine angels, my min- 
istering servants, and by mine 
own voice out of the heavens, to 
bring forth my work; 

38. Which foundation he did 
lay, and was faithful; and I took 
him to myself. 

39. Many have marveled be- 



cause of his death; but it was 
needful that he should m seal his 
testimony with his blood, that he 
might be honored and the wicked 
might be condemned. 

40. Have I not delivered you 
from your enemies, only in that 
I have left a witness of my 
name? 

41. Now, therefore, hearken, 
ye. people of my church; and ye 
elders listen together; you have 
received my kingdom. 

42. Be diligent in keeping all 
my commandments, lest judg- 
ments come upon you, and your 
faith fail you, and your enemies 
triumph over you. So no more 
at present. Amen and Amen. 
