Because of the hardness of the
hearts of the people of the Nephites, except they repent I will
take away my word from them, and I will withdraw my Spirit from
them, and I will suffer them no longer, and I will turn the
hearts of their brethren against them.

Helaman 13:9
 9 And four hundred years shall not pass away before I will cause
that they shall be smitten; yea, I will visit them with the sword
and with famine and with pestilence.

Helaman 13:10
 10 Yea, I will visit them in my fierce anger, and there shall be
those of the fourth generation who shall live, of your enemies,
to behold your utter destruction; and this shall surely come
except ye repent, saith the Lord; and those of the fourth
generation shall visit your destruction.

Helaman 13:11
 11 But if ye will repent and return unto the Lord your God I
will turn away mine anger, saith the Lord; yea, thus saith the
Lord, blessed are they who will repent and turn unto me, but wo
unto him that repenteth not.

Helaman 13:12
 12 Yea, wo unto this great city of Zarahemla; for behold, it is
because of those who are righteous that it is saved; yea, wo unto
this great city, for I perceive, saith the Lord, that there are
many, yea, even the more part of this great city, that will
harden their hearts against me, saith the Lord.

Helaman 13:13
 13 But blessed are they who will repent, for them will I spare. 
But behold, if it were not for the righteous who are in this
great city, behold, I would cause that fire should come down out
of heaven and destroy it.

Helaman 13:14
 14 But behold, it is for the righteous' sake that it is spared. 
But behold, the time cometh, saith the Lord, that when ye shall
cast out the righteous from among you, then shall ye be ripe for
destruction; yea, wo be unto this great city, because of the
wickedness and abominations which are in her.

Helaman 13:15
 15 Yea, and wo be unto the city of Gideon, for the wickedness
and abominations which are in her.

Helaman 13:16
 16 Yea, and wo be unto all the cities which are in the land
round about, which are possessed by the Nephites, because of the
wickedness and abominations which are in them.

Helaman 13:17
 17 And behold, a curse shall come upon the land, saith the Lord
of Hosts, because of the people's sake who are upon the land,
yea, because of their wickedness and their abominations.

Helaman 13:18
 18 And it shall come to pass, saith the Lord of Hosts, yea, our
great and true God, that whoso shall hide up treasures in the
earth shall find them again no more, because of the great curse
of the land, save he be a righteous man and shall hide it up unto
the Lord.

Helaman 13:19
 19 For I will, saith the Lord, that they shall hide up their
treasures unto me; and cursed be they who hide not up their
treasures unto me; for none hideth up their treasures unto me
save it be the righteous; and he that hideth not up his treasures
unto me, cursed is he, and also the treasure, and none shall
redeem it because of the curse of the land.

Helaman 13:20
 20 And the day shall come that they shall hide up their
treasures, because they have set their hearts upon riches; and
because they have set their hearts upon their riches, and will
hide up their treasures when they shall flee before their
enemies; because they will not hide them up unto me, cursed be
they and also their treasures; and in that day shall they be
smitten, saith the Lord.


Cry unto this people, repent and prepare the
way of the Lord.

I will not utterly destroy them,
but I will cause that in the day of my wisdom they shall return
again unto me, saith the Lord.

If they will not repent, and observe to do my will, I
will utterly destroy them, saith the Lord, because of their
unbelief notwithstanding the many mighty works which I have done
among them;