
Ether 1:41
 41 Go to and gather together thy flocks, both male and female,
of every kind; and also of the seed of the earth of every kind;
and thy families; and also Jared thy brother and his family; and
also thy friends and their families, and the friends of Jared and
their families.

Ether 1:42
 42 And when thou hast done this thou shalt go at the head of
them down into the valley which is northward.  And there will I
meet thee, and I will go before thee into a land which is choice
above all the lands of the earth.

Ether 1:43
 43 And there will I bless thee and thy seed, and raise up unto
me of thy seed, and of the seed of thy brother, and they who
shall go with thee, a great nation.  And there shall be none
greater than the nation which I will raise up unto me of thy
seed, upon all the face of the earth.  And thus I will do unto
thee because this long time ye have cried unto me.


 Go to work and build, after the manner of
barges which ye have hitherto built.



Behold, thou
shalt make a hole in the top, and also in the bottom; and when
thou shalt suffer for air thou shalt unstop the hole and receive
air.  And if it be so that the water come in upon thee, behold,
ye shall stop the hole, that ye may not perish in the flood.


What will ye
that I should do that ye may have light in your vessels?  For
behold, ye cannot have windows, for they will be dashed in
pieces; neither shall ye take fire with you, for ye shall not go
by the light of fire.

Ether 2:24
 24 For behold, ye shall be as a whale in the midst of the sea;
for the mountain waves shall dash upon you.  Nevertheless, I will
bring you up again out of the depths of the sea; for the winds
have gone forth out of my mouth, and also the rains and the
floods have I sent forth.

Ether 2:25
 25 And behold, I prepare you against these things; for ye cannot
cross this great deep save I prepare you against the waves of the
sea, and the winds which have gone forth, and the floods which
shall come.  Therefore what will ye that I should prepare for you
that ye may have light when ye are swallowed up in the depths of
the sea?


Arise, why hast thou fallen?


Because of thy faith thou hast
seen that I shall take upon me flesh and blood; and never has man
come before me with such exceeding faith as thou hast; for were
it not so ye could not have seen my finger.  Sawest thou more
than this?


Because thou knowest these things ye
are redeemed from the fall; therefore ye are brought back into my
presence; therefore I show myself unto you.

Ether 3:14
 14 Behold, I am he who was prepared from the foundation of the
world to redeem my people.  Behold, I am Jesus Christ.  I am the
Father and the Son.  In me shall all mankind have life, and that
eternally, even they who shall believe on my name; and they shall
become my sons and my daughters.

Ether 3:15
 15 And never have I showed myself unto man whom I have created,
for never has man believed in me as thou hast.  Seest thou that
ye are created after mine own image?  Yea, even all men were
created in the beginning after mine own image.

Ether 3:16
 16 Behold, this body, which ye now behold, is the body of my
spirit; and man have I created after the body of my spirit; and
even as I appear unto thee to be in the spirit will I appear unto
my people in the flesh.

Behold, thou shalt not suffer these things which ye have
seen and heard to go forth unto the world, until the time cometh
that I shall glorify my name in the flesh; wherefore, ye shall
treasure up the things which ye have seen and heard, and show it
to no man.

Ether 3:22
 22 And behold, when ye shall come unto me, ye shall write them
and shall seal them up, that no one can interpret them; for ye
shall write them in a language that they cannot be read.

Ether 3:23
 23 And behold, these two stones will I give unto thee, and ye
shall seal them up also with the things which ye shall write.

Ether 3:24
 24 For behold, the language which ye shall write I have
confounded; wherefore I will cause in my own due time that these
stones shall magnify to the eyes of men these things which ye
shall write.

Write these things and seal them
up; and I will show them in mine own due time unto the children
of men.

They shall not go forth unto the
Gentiles until the day that they shall repent of their iniquity,
and become clean before the Lord.


Ether 4:7
 7 And in that day that they shall exercise faith in me, saith
the Lord, even as the brother of Jared did, that they may become
sanctified in me, then will I manifest unto them the things which
the brother of Jared saw, even to the unfolding unto them all my
revelations, saith Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Father of
the heavens and of the earth, and all things that in them are.

Ether 4:8
 8 And he that will contend against the word of the Lord, let him
be accursed; and he that shall deny these things, let him be
accursed; for unto them will I show no greater things, saith
Jesus Christ; for I am he who speaketh.

Ether 4:9
 9 And at my command the heavens are opened and are shut; and at
my word the earth shall shake; and at my command the inhabitants
thereof shall pass away, even so as by fire.

Ether 4:10
 10 And he that believeth not my words believeth not my
disciples; and if it so be that I do not speak, judge ye; for ye
shall know that it is I that speaketh, at the last day.

Ether 4:11
 11 But he that believeth these things which I have spoken, him
will I visit with the manifestations of my Spirit, and he shall
know and bear record.  For because of my Spirit he shall know
that these things are true; for it persuadeth men to do good.

Ether 4:12
 12 And whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do good is of me; for
good cometh of none save it be of me.  I am the same that leadeth
men to all good; he that will not believe my words will not
believe me--that I am; and he that will not believe me will not
believe the Father who sent me.  For behold, I am the Father, I
am the light, and the life, and the truth of the world.

Ether 4:13
 13 Come unto me, O ye Gentiles, and I will show unto you the
greater things, the knowledge which is hid up because of
unbelief.

Ether 4:14
 14 Come unto me, O ye house of Israel, and it shall be made
manifest unto you how great things the Father hath laid up for
you, from the foundation of the world; and it hath not come unto
you, because of unbelief.

Ether 4:15
 15 Behold, when ye shall rend that veil of unbelief which doth
cause you to remain in your awful state of wickedness, and
hardness of heart, and blindness of mind, then shall the great
and marvelous things which have been hid up from the foundation
of the world from you--yea, when ye shall call upon the Father in
my name, with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, then shall ye
know that the Father hath remembered the covenant which he made
unto your fathers, O house of Israel.

Ether 4:16
 16 And then shall my revelations which I have caused to be
written by my servant John be unfolded in the eyes of all the
people.  Remember, when ye see these things, ye shall know that
the time is at hand that they shall be made manifest in very
deed.

Ether 4:17
 17 Therefore, when ye shall receive this record ye may know that
the work of the Father has commenced upon all the face of the
land.

Ether 4:18
 18 Therefore, repent all ye ends of the earth, and come unto me,
and believe in my gospel, and be baptized in my name; for he that
believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth
not shall be damned; and signs shall follow them that believe in
my name.

Ether 4:19
 19 And blessed is he that is found faithful unto my name at the
last day, for he shall be lifted up to dwell in the kingdom
prepared for him from the foundation of the world.  And behold it
is I that hath spoken it.  Amen.


I will pour out the fulness of my
wrath.


Fools mock, but they shall mourn; and my grace is sufficient for
the meek, that they shall take no advantage of your weakness;

Ether 12:27
 27 And if men come unto me I will show unto them their weakness.

I give unto men weakness that they may be humble; and my grace is
sufficient for all men that humble themselves before me; for if
they humble themselves before me, and have faith in me, then will
I make weak things become strong unto them.

Ether 12:28
 28 Behold, I will show unto the Gentiles their weakness and I
will show unto them that faith, hope and charity bringeth unto
me--the fountain of all righteousness.

If they have
not charity it mattereth not unto thee, thou hast been faithful;
wherefore, thy garments shall be made clean.  And because thou
hast seen thy weakness thou shalt be made strong, even unto the
sitting down in the place which I have prepared in the mansions
of my Father.









