
Mormon
THE BOOK OF MORMON

Mormon 1
Chapter 1

Mormon 1:1
 1 And now I, Mormon, make a record of the things which I have
both seen and heard, and call it the Book of Mormon.

Mormon 1:2
 2 And about the time that Ammaron hid up the records unto the
Lord, he came unto me, (I being about ten years of age, and I
began to be learned somewhat after the manner of the learning of
my people) and Ammaron said unto me:





Mormon 1:5
 5 And I, Mormon, being a descendant of Nephi, (and my father's
name was Mormon) I remembered the things which Ammaron commanded
me.

Mormon 1:6
 6 And it came to pass that I, being eleven years old, was
carried by my father into the land southward, even to the land of
Zarahemla.

Mormon 1:7
 7 The whole face of the land had become covered with buildings,
and the people were as numerous almost, as it were the sand of
the sea.

Mormon 1:8
 8 And it came to pass in this year there began to be a war
between the Nephites, who consisted of the Nephites and the
Jacobites and the Josephites and the Zoramites; and this war was
between the Nephites, and the Lamanites and the Lemuelites and
the Ishmaelites.

Mormon 1:9
 9 Now the Lamanites and the Lemuelites and the Ishmaelites were
called Lamanites, and the two parties were Nephites and
Lamanites.

Mormon 1:10
 10 And it came to pass that the war began to be among them in
the borders of Zarahemla, by the waters of Sidon.

Mormon 1:11
 11 And it came to pass that the Nephites had gathered together a
great number of men, even to exceed the number of thirty
thousand.  And it came to pass that they did have in this same
year a number of battles, in which the Nephites did beat the
Lamanites and did slay many of them.

Mormon 1:12
 12 And it came to pass that the Lamanites withdrew their design,
and there was peace settled in the land; and peace did remain for
the space of about four years, that there was no bloodshed.

Mormon 1:13
 13 But wickedness did prevail upon the face of the whole land,
insomuch that the Lord did take away his beloved disciples, and
the work of miracles and of healing did cease because of the
iniquity of the people.

Mormon 1:14
 14 And there were no gifts from the Lord, and the Holy Ghost did
not come upon any, because of their wickedness and unbelief.

Mormon 1:15
 15 And I, being fifteen years of age and being somewhat of a
sober mind, therefore I was visited of the Lord, and tasted and
knew of the goodness of Jesus.

Mormon 1:16
 16 And I did endeavor to preach unto this people, but my mouth
was shut, and I was forbidden that I should preach unto them; for
behold they had wilfully rebelled against their God; and the
beloved disciples were taken away out of the land, because of
their iniquity.

Mormon 1:17
 17 But I did remain among them, but I was forbidden to preach
unto them, because of the hardness of their hearts; and because
of the hardness of their hearts the land was cursed for their
sake.

Mormon 1:18
 18 And these Gadianton robbers, who were among the Lamanites,
did infest the land, insomuch that the inhabitants thereof began
to hide up their treasures in the earth; and they became
slippery, because the Lord had cursed the land, that they could
not hold them, nor retain them again.

Mormon 1:19
 19 And it came to pass that there were sorceries, and
witchcrafts, and magics; and the power of the evil one was
wrought upon all the face of the land, even unto the fulfilling
of all the words of Abinadi, and also Samuel the Lamanite.

Mormon 2
Chapter 2

Mormon 2:1
 1 And it came to pass in that same year there began to be a war
again between the Nephites and the Lamanites.  And
notwithstanding I being young, was large in stature; therefore
the people of Nephi appointed me that I should be their leader,
or the leader of their armies.

Mormon 2:2
 2 Therefore it came to pass that in my sixteenth year I did go
forth at the head of an army of the Nephites, against the
Lamanites; therefore three hundred and twenty and six years had
passed away.

Mormon 2:3
 3 And it came to pass that in the three hundred and twenty and
seventh year the Lamanites did come upon us with exceedingly
great power, insomuch that they did frighten my armies; therefore
they would not fight, and they began to retreat towards the north
countries.

Mormon 2:4
 4 And it came to pass that we did come to the city of Angola,
and we did take possession of the city, and make preparations to
defend ourselves against the Lamanites.  And it came to pass that
we did fortify the city with our might; but notwithstanding all
our fortifications the Lamanites did come upon us and did drive
us out of the city.

Mormon 2:5
 5 And they did also drive us forth out of the land of David.

Mormon 2:6
 6 And we marched forth and came to the land of Joshua, which was
in the borders west by the seashore.

Mormon 2:7
 7 And it came to pass that we did gather in our people as fast
as it were possible, that we might get them together in one body.

Mormon 2:8
 8 But behold, the land was filled with robbers and with
Lamanites; and notwithstanding the great destruction which hung
over my people, they did not repent of their evil doings;
therefore there was blood and carnage spread throughout all the
face of the land, both on the part of the Nephites and also on
the part of the Lamanites; and it was one complete revolution
throughout all the face of the land.

Mormon 2:9
 9 And now, the Lamanites had a king, and his name was Aaron; and
he came against us with an army of forty and four thousand.  And
behold, I withstood him with forty and two thousand.  And it came
to pass that I beat him with my army that he fled before me.  And
behold, all this was done, and three hundred and thirty years had
passed away.

Mormon 2:10
 10 And it came to pass that the Nephites began to repent of
their iniquity, and began to cry even as had been prophesied by
Samuel the prophet; for behold no man could keep that which was
his own, for the thieves, and the robbers, and the murderers, and
the magic art, and the witchcraft which was in the land.

Mormon 2:11
 11 Thus there began to be a mourning and a lamentation in all
the land because of these things, and more especially among the
people of Nephi.

Mormon 2:12
 12 And it came to pass that when I, Mormon, saw their
lamentation and their mourning and their sorrow before the Lord,
my heart did begin to rejoice within me, knowing the mercies and
the long-suffering of the Lord, therefore supposing that he would
be merciful unto them that they would again become a righteous
people.

Mormon 2:13
 13 But behold this my joy was vain, for their sorrowing was not
unto repentance, because of the goodness of God; but it was
rather the sorrowing of the damned, because the Lord would not
always suffer them to take happiness in sin.

Mormon 2:14
 14 And they did not come unto Jesus with broken hearts and
contrite spirits, but they did curse God, and wish to die. 
Nevertheless they would struggle with the sword for their lives.

Mormon 2:15
 15 And it came to pass that my sorrow did return unto me again,
and I saw that the day of grace was passed with them, both
temporally and spiritually; for I saw thousands of them hewn down
in open rebellion against their God, and heaped up as dung upon
the face of the land.  And thus three hundred and forty and four
years had passed away.

Mormon 2:16
 16 And it came to pass that in the three hundred and forty and
fifth year the Nephites did begin to flee before the Lamanites;
and they were pursued until they came even to the land of Jashon,
before it was possible to stop them in their retreat.

Mormon 2:17
 17 And now, the city of Jashon was near the land where Ammaron
had deposited the records unto the Lord, that they might not be
destroyed.  And behold I had gone according to the word of
Ammaron, and taken the plates of Nephi, and did make a record
according to the words of Ammaron.

Mormon 2:18
 18 And upon the plates of Nephi I did make a full account of all
the wickedness and abominations; but upon these plates I did
forbear to make a full account of their wickedness and
abominations, for behold, a continual scene of wickedness and
abominations has been before mine eyes ever since I have been
sufficient to behold the ways of man.

Mormon 2:19
 19 And wo is me because of their wickedness; for my heart has
been filled with sorrow because of their wickedness, all my days;
nevertheless, I know that I shall be lifted up at the last day.

Mormon 2:20
 20 And it came to pass that in this year the people of Nephi
again were hunted and driven.  And it came to pass that we were
driven forth until we had come northward to the land which was
called Shem.

Mormon 2:21
 21 And it came to pass that we did fortify the city of Shem, and
we did gather in our people as much as it were possible, that
perhaps we might save them from destruction.

Mormon 2:22
 22 And it came to pass in the three hundred and forty and sixth
year they began to come upon us again.

Mormon 2:23
 23 And it came to pass that I did speak unto my people, and did
urge them with great energy, that they would stand boldly before
the Lamanites and fight for their wives, and their children, and
their houses, and their homes.

Mormon 2:24
 24 And my words did arouse them somewhat to vigor, insomuch that
they did not flee from before the Lamanites, but did stand with
boldness against them.

Mormon 2:25
 25 And it came to pass that we did contend with an army of
thirty thousand against an army of fifty thousand.  And it came
to pass that we did stand before them with such firmness that
they did flee from before us.

Mormon 2:26
 26 And it came to pass that when they had fled we did pursue
them with our armies, and did meet them again, and did beat them;
nevertheless the strength of the Lord was not with us; yea, we
were left to ourselves, that the Spirit of the Lord did not abide
in us; therefore we had become weak like unto our brethren.

Mormon 2:27
 27 And my heart did sorrow because of this the great calamity of
my people, because of their wickedness and their abominations. 
But behold, we did go forth against the Lamanites and the robbers
of Gadianton, until we had again taken possession of the lands of
our inheritance.

Mormon 2:28
 28 And the three hundred and forty and ninth year had passed
away.  And in the three hundred and fiftieth year we made a
treaty with the Lamanites and the robbers of Gadianton, in which
we did get the lands of our inheritance divided.

Mormon 2:29
 29 And the Lamanites did give unto us the land northward, yea,
even to the narrow passage which led into the land southward. 
And we did give unto the Lamanites all the land southward.

Mormon 3
Chapter 3

Mormon 3:1
 1 And it came to pass that the Lamanites did not come to battle
again until ten years more had passed away.  And behold, I had
employed my people, the Nephites, in preparing their lands and
their arms against the time of battle.

Mormon 3:2
 2 And it came to pass that the Lord did say unto me:


Mormon 3:3
 3 And I did cry unto this people, but it was in vain; and they
did not realize that it was the Lord that had spared them, and
granted unto them a chance for repentance.  And behold they did
harden their hearts against the Lord their God.

Mormon 3:4
 4 And it came to pass that after this tenth year had passed
away, making, in the whole, three hundred and sixty years from
the coming of Christ, the king of the Lamanites sent an epistle
unto me, which gave unto me to know that they were preparing to
come again to battle against us.

Mormon 3:5
 5 And it came to pass that I did cause my people that they
should gather themselves together at the land Desolation, to a
city which was in the borders, by the narrow pass which led into
the land southward.

Mormon 3:6
 6 And there we did place our armies, that we might stop the
armies of the Lamanites, that they might not get possession of
any of our lands; therefore we did fortify against them with all
our force.

Mormon 3:7
 7 And it came to pass that in the three hundred and sixty and
first year the Lamanites did come down to the city of Desolation
to battle against us; and it came to pass that in that year we
did beat them, insomuch that they did return to their own lands
again.

Mormon 3:8
 8 And in the three hundred and sixty and second year they did
come down again to battle.  And we did beat them again, and did
slay a great number of them, and their dead were cast into the
sea.

Mormon 3:9
 9 And now, because of this great thing which my people, the
Nephites, had done, they began to boast in their own strength,
and began to swear before the heavens that they would avenge
themselves of the blood of their brethren who had been slain by
their enemies.

Mormon 3:10
 10 And they did swear by the heavens, and also by the throne of
God, that they would go up to battle against their enemies, and
would cut them off from the face of the land.

Mormon 3:11
 11 And it came to pass that I, Mormon, did utterly refuse from
this time forth to be a commander and a leader of this people,
because of their wickedness and abomination.

Mormon 3:12
 12 Behold, I had led them, notwithstanding their wickedness I
had led them many times to battle, and had loved them, according
to the love of God which was in me, with all my heart; and my
soul had been poured out in prayer unto my God all the day long
for them; nevertheless, it was without faith, because of the
hardness of their hearts.

Mormon 3:13
 13 And thrice have I delivered them out of the hands of their
enemies, and they have repented not of their sins.

Mormon 3:14
 14 And when they had sworn by all that had been forbidden them
by our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, that they would go up unto
their enemies to battle, and avenge themselves of the blood of
their brethren, behold the voice of the Lord came unto me saying:



Mormon 3:16
 16 And it came to pass that I utterly refused to go up against
mine enemies; and I did even as the Lord had commanded me; and I
did stand as an idle witness to manifest unto the world the
things which I saw and heard, according to the manifestations of
the Spirit which had testified of things to come.

Mormon 3:17
 17 Therefore I write unto you, Gentiles, and also unto you,
house of Israel, when the work shall commence, that ye shall be
about to prepare to return to the land of your inheritance;

Mormon 3:18
 18 Yea, behold, I write unto all the ends of the earth; yea,
unto you, twelve tribes of Israel, who shall be judged according
to your works by the twelve whom Jesus chose to be his disciples
in the land of Jerusalem.

Mormon 3:19
 19 And I write also unto the remnant of this people, who shall
also be judged by the twelve whom Jesus chose in this land; and
they shall be judged by the other twelve whom Jesus chose in the
land of Jerusalem.

Mormon 3:20
 20 And these things doth the Spirit manifest unto me; therefore
I write unto you all.  And for this cause I write unto you, that
ye may know that ye must all stand before the judgment-seat of
Christ, yea, every soul who belongs to the whole human family of
Adam; and ye must stand to be judged of your works, whether they
be good or evil;

Mormon 3:21
 21 And also that ye may believe the gospel of Jesus Christ,
which ye shall have among you; and also that the Jews, the
covenant people of the Lord, shall have other witness besides him
whom they saw and heard, that Jesus, whom they slew, was the very
Christ and the very God.

Mormon 3:22
 22 And I would that I could persuade all ye ends of the earth to
repent and prepare to stand before the judgment-seat of Christ.

Mormon 4
Chapter 4

Mormon 4:1
 1 And now it came to pass that in the three hundred and sixty
and third year the Nephites did go up with their armies to battle
against the Lamanites, out of the land Desolation.

Mormon 4:2
 2 And it came to pass that the armies of the Nephites were
driven back again to the land of Desolation.  And while they were
yet weary, a fresh army of the Lamanites did come upon them; and
they had a sore battle, insomuch that the Lamanites did take
possession of the city Desolation, and did slay many of the
Nephites, and did take many prisoners.

Mormon 4:3
 3 And the remainder did flee and join the inhabitants of the
city Teancum.  Now the city Teancum lay in the borders by the
seashore; and it was also near the city Desolation.

Mormon 4:4
 4 And it was because the armies of the Nephites went up unto the
Lamanites that they began to be smitten; for were it not for
that, the Lamanites could have had no power over them.

Mormon 4:5
 5 But, behold, the judgments of God will overtake the wicked;
and it is by the wicked that the wicked are punished; for it is
the wicked that stir up the hearts of the children of men unto
bloodshed.

Mormon 4:6
 6 And it came to pass that the Lamanites did make preparations
to come against the city Teancum.

Mormon 4:7
 7 And it came to pass in the three hundred and sixty and fourth
year the Lamanites did come against the city Teancum, that they
might take possession of the city Teancum also.

Mormon 4:8
 8 And it came to pass that they were repulsed and driven back by
the Nephites.  And when the Nephites saw that they had driven the
Lamanites they did again boast of their own strength; and they
went forth in their own might, and took possession again of the
city Desolation.

Mormon 4:9
 9 And now all these things had been done, and there had been
thousands slain on both sides, both the Nephites and the
Lamanites.

Mormon 4:10
 10 And it came to pass that the three hundred and sixty and
sixth year had passed away, and the Lamanites came again upon the
Nephites to battle; and yet the Nephites repented not of the evil
they had done, but persisted in their wickedness continually.

Mormon 4:11
 11 And it is impossible for the tongue to describe, or for man
to write a perfect description of the horrible scene of the blood
and carnage which was among the people, both of the Nephites and
of the Lamanites; and every heart was hardened, so that they
delighted in the shedding of blood continually.

Mormon 4:12
 12 And there never had been so great wickedness among all the
children of Lehi, nor even among all the house of Israel,
according to the words of the Lord, as was among this people.

Mormon 4:13
 13 And it came to pass that the Lamanites did take possession of
the city Desolation, and this because their number did exceed the
number of the Nephites.

Mormon 4:14
 14 And they did also march forward against the city Teancum, and
did drive the inhabitants forth out of her, and did take many
prisoners both women and children, and did offer them up as
sacrifices unto their idol gods.

Mormon 4:15
 15 And it came to pass that in the three hundred and sixty and
seventh year, the Nephites being angry because the Lamanites had
sacrificed their women and their children, that they did go
against the Lamanites with exceedingly great anger, insomuch that
they did beat again the Lamanites, and drive them out of their
lands.

Mormon 4:16
 16 And the Lamanites did not come again against the Nephites
until the three hundred and seventy and fifth year.

Mormon 4:17
 17 And in this year they did come down against the Nephites with
all their powers; and they were not numbered because of the
greatness of their number.

Mormon 4:18
 18 And from this time forth did the Nephites gain no power over
the Lamanites, but began to be swept off by them even as a dew
before the sun.

Mormon 4:19
 19 And it came to pass that the Lamanites did come down against
the city Desolation; and there was an exceedingly sore battle
fought in the land Desolation, in the which they did beat the
Nephites.

Mormon 4:20
 20 And they fled again from before them, and they came to the
city Boaz; and there they did stand against the Lamanites with
exceeding boldness, insomuch that the Lamanites did not beat them
until they had come again the second time.

Mormon 4:21
 21 And when they had come the second time, the Nephites were
driven and slaughtered with an exceedingly great slaughter; their
women and their children were again sacrificed unto idols.

Mormon 4:22
 22 And it came to pass that the Nephites did again flee from
before them, taking all the inhabitants with them, both in towns
and villages.

Mormon 4:23
 23 And now I, Mormon, seeing that the Lamanites were about to
overthrow the land, therefore I did go to the hill Shim, and did
take up all the records which Ammaron had hid up unto the Lord.

Mormon 5
Chapter 5

Mormon 5:1
 1 And it came to pass that I did go forth among the Nephites,
and did repent of the oath which I had made that I would no more
assist them; and they gave me command again of their armies, for
they looked upon me as though I could deliver them from their
afflictions.

Mormon 5:2
 2 But behold, I was without hope, for I knew the judgments of
the Lord which should come upon them; for they repented not of
their iniquities, but did struggle for their lives without
calling upon that Being who created them.

Mormon 5:3
 3 And it came to pass that the Lamanites did come against us as
we had fled to the city of Jordan; but behold, they were driven
back that they did not take the city at that time.

Mormon 5:4
 4 And it came to pass that they came against us again, and we
did maintain the city.  And there were also other cities which
were maintained by Nephites, which strongholds did cut them off
that they could not get into the country which lay before us, to
destroy the inhabitants of our land.

Mormon 5:5
 5 And it came to pass that whatsoever lands we had passed by,
and the inhabitants thereof were not gathered in, were destroyed
by the Lamanites, and their towns, and villages, and cities were
burned with fire; and thus three hundred and seventy and nine
years passed away.

Mormon 5:6
 6 And it came to pass that in the three hundred and eightieth
year the Lamanites did come again against us to battle, and we
did stand against them boldly; but it was all in vain, for so
great were their numbers that they did tread the people of the
Nephites under their feet.

Mormon 5:7
 7 And it came to pass that we did again take to flight, and
those whose flight was swifter than the Lamanites' did escape,
and those whose flight did not exceed the Lamanites' were swept
down and destroyed.

Mormon 5:8
 8 And now behold, I, Mormon, do not desire to harrow up the
souls of men in casting before them such an awful scene of blood
and carnage as was laid before mine eyes; but I, knowing that
these things must surely be made known, and that all things which
are hid must be revealed upon the house-tops--

Mormon 5:9
 9 And also that a knowledge of these things must come unto the
remnant of these people, and also unto the Gentiles, who the Lord
hath said should scatter this people, and this people should be
counted as naught among them--therefore I write a small
abridgment, daring not to give a full account of the things which
I have seen, because of the commandment which I have received,
and also that ye might not have too great sorrow because of the
wickedness of this people.

Mormon 5:10
 10 And now behold, this I speak unto their seed, and also to the
Gentiles who have care for the house of Israel, that realize and
know from whence their blessings come.

Mormon 5:11
 11 For I know that such will sorrow for the calamity of the
house of Israel; yea, they will sorrow for the destruction of
this people; they will sorrow that this people had not repented
that they might have been clasped in the arms of Jesus.

Mormon 5:12
 12 Now these things are written unto the remnant of the house of
Jacob; and they are written after this manner, because it is
known of God that wickedness will not bring them forth unto them;
and they are to be hid up unto the Lord that they may come forth
in his own due time.

Mormon 5:13
 13 And this is the commandment which I have received; and
behold, they shall come forth according to the commandment of the
Lord, when he shall see fit, in his wisdom.

Mormon 5:14
 14 And behold, they shall go unto the unbelieving of the Jews;
and for this intent shall they go--that they may be persuaded
that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God; that the
Father may bring about, through his most Beloved, his great and
eternal purpose, in restoring the Jews, or all the house of
Israel, to the land of their inheritance, which the Lord their
God hath given them, unto the fulfilling of his covenant;

Mormon 5:15
 15 And also that the seed of this people may more fully believe
his gospel, which shall go forth unto them from the Gentiles; for
this people shall be scattered, and shall become a dark, a
filthy, and a loathsome people, beyond the description of that
which ever hath been amongst us, yea, even that which hath been
among the Lamanites, and this because of their unbelief and
idolatry.

Mormon 5:16
 16 For behold, the Spirit of the Lord hath already ceased to
strive with their fathers; and they are without Christ and God in
the world; and they are driven about as chaff before the wind.

Mormon 5:17
 17 They were once a delightsome people, and they had Christ for
their shepherd; yea, they were led even by God the Father.

Mormon 5:18
 18 But now, behold, they are led about by Satan, even as chaff
is driven before the wind, or as a vessel is tossed about upon
the waves, without sail or anchor, or without anything wherewith
to steer her; and even as she is, so are they.

Mormon 5:19
 19 And behold, the Lord hath reserved their blessings, which
they might have received in the land, for the Gentiles who shall
possess the land.

Mormon 5:20
 20 But behold, it shall come to pass that they shall be driven
and scattered by the Gentiles; and after they have been driven
and scattered by the Gentiles, behold, then will the Lord
remember the covenant which he made unto Abraham and unto all the
house of Israel.

Mormon 5:21
 21 And also the Lord will remember the prayers of the righteous,
which have been put up unto him for them.

Mormon 5:22
 22 And then, O ye Gentiles, how can ye stand before the power of
God, except ye shall repent and turn from your evil ways?

Mormon 5:23
 23 Know ye not that ye are in the hands of God?  Know ye not
that he hath all power, and at his great command the earth shall
be rolled together as a scroll?

Mormon 5:24
 24 Therefore, repent ye, and humble yourselves before him, lest
he shall come out in justice against you--lest a remnant of the
seed of Jacob shall go forth among you as a lion, and tear you in
pieces, and there is none to deliver.


Mormon 6
Chapter 6

Mormon 6:1
 1 And now I finish my record concerning the destruction of my
people, the Nephites.  And it came to pass that we did march
forth before the Lamanites.

Mormon 6:2
 2 And I, Mormon, wrote an epistle unto the king of the
Lamanites, and desired of him that he would grant unto us that we
might gather together our people unto the land of Cumorah, by a
hill which was called Cumorah, and there we could give them
battle.

Mormon 6:3
 3 And it came to pass that the king of the Lamanites did grant
unto me the thing which I desired.

Mormon 6:4
 4 And it came to pass that we did march forth to the land of
Cumorah, and we did pitch our tents around about the hill
Cumorah; and it was in a land of many waters, rivers, and
fountains; and here we had hope to gain advantage over the
Lamanites.

Mormon 6:5
 5 And when three hundred and eighty and four years had passed
away, we had gathered in all the remainder of our people unto the
land of Cumorah.

Mormon 6:6
 6 And it came to pass that when we had gathered in all our
people in one to the land of Cumorah, behold I, Mormon, began to
be old; and knowing it to be the last struggle of my people, and
having been commanded of the Lord that I should not suffer the
records which had been handed down by our fathers, which were
sacred, to fall into the hands of the Lamanites, (for the
Lamanites would destroy them) therefore I made this record out of
the plates of Nephi, and hid up in the hill Cumorah all the
records which had been entrusted to me by the hand of the Lord,
save it were these few plates which I gave unto my son Moroni.

Mormon 6:7
 7 And it came to pass that my people, with their wives and their
children, did now behold the armies of the Lamanites marching
towards them; and with that awful fear of death which fills the
breasts of all the wicked, did they await to receive them.

Mormon 6:8
 8 And it came to pass that they came to battle against us, and
every soul was filled with terror because of the greatness of
their numbers.

Mormon 6:9
 9 And it came to pass that they did fall upon my people with the
sword, and with the bow, and with the arrow, and with the ax, and
with all manner of weapons of war.

Mormon 6:10
 10 And it came to pass that my men were hewn down, yea, even my
ten thousand who were with me, and I fell wounded in the midst;
and they passed by me that they did not put an end to my life.

Mormon 6:11
 11 And when they had gone through and hewn down all my people
save it were twenty and four of us, (among whom was my son
Moroni) and we having survived the dead of our people, did behold
on the morrow, when the Lamanites had returned unto their camps,
from the top of the hill Cumorah, the ten thousand of my people
who were hewn down, being led in the front by me.

Mormon 6:12
 12 And we also beheld the ten thousand of my people who were led
by my son Moroni.

Mormon 6:13
 13 And behold, the ten thousand of Gidgiddonah had fallen, and
he also in the midst.

Mormon 6:14
 14 And Lamah had fallen with his ten thousand; and Gilgal had
fallen with his ten thousand; and Limhah had fallen with his ten
thousand; and Jeneum had fallen with his ten thousand; and
Cumenihah, and Moronihah, and Antionum, and Shiblom, and Shem,
and Josh, had fallen with their ten thousand each.

Mormon 6:15
 15 And it came to pass that there were ten more who did fall by
the sword, with their ten thousand each; yea, even all my people,
save it were those twenty and four who were with me, and also a
few who had escaped into the south countries, and a few who had
deserted over unto the Lamanites, had fallen; and their flesh,
and bones, and blood lay upon the face of the earth, being left
by the hands of those who slew them to molder upon the land, and
to crumble and to return to their mother earth.

Mormon 6:16
 16 And my soul was rent with anguish, because of the slain of my
people, and I cried:

Mormon 6:17
 17 O ye fair ones, how could ye have departed from the ways of
the Lord!  O ye fair ones, how could ye have rejected that Jesus,
who stood with open arms to receive you!

Mormon 6:18
 18 Behold, if ye had not done this, ye would not have fallen. 
But behold, ye are fallen, and I mourn your loss.

Mormon 6:19
 19 O ye fair sons and daughters, ye fathers and mothers, ye
husbands and wives, ye fair ones, how is it that ye could have
fallen!

Mormon 6:20
 20 But behold, ye are gone, and my sorrows cannot bring your
return.

Mormon 6:21
 21 And the day soon cometh that your mortal must put on
immortality, and these bodies which are now moldering in
corruption must soon become incorruptible bodies; and then ye
must stand before the judgment-seat of Christ to be judged
according to your works and if it so be that ye are righteous,
then are ye blessed with your fathers who have gone before you.

Mormon 6:22
 22 O that ye had repented before this great destruction had come
upon you.  But behold, ye are gone, and the Father, yea, the
Eternal Father of heaven, knoweth your state; and he doeth with
you according to his justice and mercy.

Mormon 7
Chapter 7

Mormon 7:1
 1 And now, behold, I would speak somewhat unto the remnant of
this people who are spared, if it so be that God may give unto
them my words, that they may know of the things of their fathers;
yea, I speak unto you, ye remnant of the house of Israel; and
these are the words which I speak:

Mormon 7:2
 2 Know ye that ye are of the house of Israel.

Mormon 7:3
 3 Know ye that ye must come unto repentance, or ye cannot be
saved.

Mormon 7:4
 4 Know ye that ye must lay down your weapons of war, and delight
no more in the shedding of blood, and take them not again, save
it be that God shall command you.

Mormon 7:5
 5 Know ye that ye must come to the knowledge of your fathers,
and repent of all your sins and iniquities, and believe in Jesus
Christ, that he is the Son of God, and that he was slain by the
Jews, and by the power of the Father he hath risen again, whereby
he hath gained the victory over the grave; and also in him is the
sting of death swallowed up.

Mormon 7:6
 6 And he bringeth to pass the resurrection of the dead, whereby
man must be raised to stand before his judgment-seat.

Mormon 7:7
 7 And he hath brought to pass the redemption of the world,
whereby he that is found guiltless before him at the judgment day
hath it given unto him to dwell in the presence of God in his
kingdom, to sing ceaseless praises with the choirs above, unto
the Father, and unto the Son, and unto the Holy Ghost, which are
one God, in a state of happiness which hath no end.

Mormon 7:8
 8 Therefore repent, and be baptized in the name of Jesus, and
lay hold upon the gospel of Christ, which shall be set before
you, not only in this record but also in the record which shall
come unto the Gentiles from the Jews, which record shall come
from the Gentiles unto you.

Mormon 7:9
 9 For behold, this is written for the intent that ye may believe
that; and if ye believe that ye will believe this also; and if ye
believe this ye will know concerning your fathers, and also the
marvelous works which were wrought by the power of God among
them.

Mormon 7:10
 10 And ye will also know that ye are a remnant of the seed of
Jacob; therefore ye are numbered among the people of the first
covenant; and if it so be that ye believe in Christ, and are
baptized, first with water, then with fire and with the Holy
Ghost, following the example of our Savior, according to that
which he hath commanded us, it shall be well with you in the day
of judgment.  Amen.


