
Helaman
THE BOOK OF HELAMAN
An account of the Nephites.  Their wars and contentions, and
their dissensions.  And also the prophecies of many holy
prophets, before the coming of Christ, according to the records
of Helaman, who was the son of Helaman, and also according to the
records of his sons, even down to the coming of Christ.  And also
many of the Lamanites are converted.  An account of their
conversion.  An account of the righteousness of the Lamanites,
and the wickedness and abominations of the Nephites, according to
the record of Helaman and his sons, even down to the coming of
Christ, which is called the book of Helaman.

Helaman 1
Chapter 1

Helaman 1:1
 1 And now behold, it came to pass in the commencement of the
fortieth year of the reign of the judges over the people of
Nephi, there began to be a serious difficulty among the people of
the Nephites.

Helaman 1:2
 2 For behold, Pahoran had died, and gone the way of all the
earth; therefore there began to be a serious contention
concerning who should have the judgment-seat among the brethren,
who were the sons of Pahoran.

Helaman 1:3
 3 Now these are their names who did contend for the
judgment-seat, who did also cause the people to contend: Pahoran,
Paanchi, and Pacumeni.

Helaman 1:4
 4 Now these are not all the sons of Pahoran, (for he had many)
but these are they who did contend for the judgment-seat;
therefore, they did cause three divisions among the people.

Helaman 1:5
 5 Nevertheless, it came to pass that Pahoran was appointed by
the voice of the people to be chief judge and a governor over the
people of Nephi.

Helaman 1:6
 6 And it came to pass that Pacumeni, when he saw that he could
not obtain the judgment-seat, he did unite with the voice of the
people.

Helaman 1:7
 7 But behold, Paanchi, and that part of the people that were
desirous that he should be their governor, was exceedingly wroth;
therefore, he was about to flatter away those people to rise up
in rebellion against their brethren.

Helaman 1:8
 8 And it came to pass as he was about to do this, behold, he was
taken, and was tried according to the voice of the people, and
condemned unto death; for he had raised up in rebellion and
sought to destroy the liberty of the people.

Helaman 1:9
 9 Now when those people who were desirous that he should be
their governor saw that he was condemned unto death, therefore
they were angry, and behold, they sent forth one Kishkumen, even
to the judgment-seat of Pahoran, and murdered Pahoran as he sat
upon the judgment-seat.

Helaman 1:10
 10 And he was pursued by the servants of Pahoran; but behold, so
speedy was the flight of Kishkumen that no man could overtake
him.

Helaman 1:11
 11 And he went unto those that sent him, and they all entered
into a covenant, yea, swearing by their everlasting Maker, that
they would tell no man that Kishkumen had murdered Pahoran.

Helaman 1:12
 12 Therefore, Kishkumen was not known among the people of Nephi,
for he was in disguise at the time that he murdered Pahoran.  And
Kishkumen and his band, who had covenanted with him, did mingle
themselves among the people, in a manner that they all could not
be found; but as many as were found were condemned unto death.

Helaman 1:13
 13 And now behold, Pacumeni was appointed, according to the
voice of the people, to be a chief judge and a governor over the
people, to reign in the stead of his brother Pahoran; and it was
according to his right.  And all this was done in the fortieth
year of the reign of the judges; and it had an end.

Helaman 1:14
 14 And it came to pass in the forty and first year of the reign
of the judges, that the Lamanites had gathered together an
innumerable army of men, and armed them with swords, and with
cimeters and with bows, and with arrows, and with head-plates,
and with breastplates, and with all manner of shields of every
kind.

Helaman 1:15
 15 And they came down again that they might pitch battle against
the Nephites.  And they were led by a man whose name was
Coriantumr; and he was a descendant of Zarahemla; and he was a
dissenter from among the Nephites; and he was a large and a
mighty man.

Helaman 1:16
 16 Therefore, the king of the Lamanites, whose name was
Tubaloth, who was the son of Ammoron, supposing that Coriantumr,
being a mighty man, could stand against the Nephites, with his
strength and also with his great wisdom, insomuch that by sending
him forth he should gain power over the Nephites--

Helaman 1:17
 17 Therefore he did stir them up to anger, and he did gather
together his armies, and he did appoint Coriantumr to be their
leader, and did cause that they should march down to the land of
Zarahemla to battle against the Nephites.

Helaman 1:18
 18 And it came to pass that because of so much contention and so
much difficulty in the government, that they had not kept
sufficient guards in the land of Zarahemla; for they had supposed
that the Lamanites durst not come into the heart of their lands
to attack that great city Zarahemla.

Helaman 1:19
 19 But it came to pass that Coriantumr did march forth at the
head of his numerous host, and came upon the inhabitants of the
city, and their march was with such exceedingly great speed that
there was no time for the Nephites to gather together their
armies.

Helaman 1:20
 20 Therefore Coriantumr did cut down the watch by the entrance
of the city, and did march forth with his whole army into the
city, and they did slay every one who did oppose them, insomuch
that they did take possession of the whole city.

Helaman 1:21
 21 And it came to pass that Pacumeni, who was the chief judge,
did flee before Coriantumr, even to the walls of the city.  And
it came to pass that Coriantumr did smite him against the wall,
insomuch that he died.  And thus ended the days of Pacumeni.

Helaman 1:22
 22 And now when Coriantumr saw that he was in possession of the
city of Zarahemla, and saw that the Nephites had fled before
them, and were slain, and were taken, and were cast into prison,
and that he had obtained the possession of the strongest hold in
all the land, his heart took courage insomuch that he was about
to go forth against all the land.

Helaman 1:23
 23 And now he did not tarry in the land of Zarahemla, but he did
march forth with a large army, even towards the city of
Bountiful; for it was his determination to go forth and cut his
way through with the sword, that he might obtain the north parts
of the land.

Helaman 1:24
 24 And, supposing that their greatest strength was in the center
of the land, therefore he did march forth, giving them no time to
assemble themselves together save it were in small bodies; and in
this manner they did fall upon them and cut them down to the
earth.

Helaman 1:25
 25 But behold, this march of Coriantumr through the center of
the land gave Moronihah great advantage over them,
notwithstanding the greatness of the number of the Nephites who
were slain.

Helaman 1:26
 26 For behold, Moronihah had supposed that the Lamanites durst
not come into the center of the land, but that they would attack
the cities round about in the borders as they had hitherto done;
therefore Moronihah had caused that their strong armies should
maintain those parts round about by the borders.

Helaman 1:27
 27 But behold, the Lamanites were not frightened according to
his desire, but they had come into the center of the land, and
had taken the capital city which was the city of Zarahemla, and
were marching through the most capital parts of the land, slaying
the people with a great slaughter, both men, women, and children,
taking possession of many cities and of many strongholds.

Helaman 1:28
 28 But when Moronihah had discovered this, he immediately sent
forth Lehi with an army round about to head them before they
should come to the land Bountiful.

Helaman 1:29
 29 And thus he did; and he did head them before they came to the
land Bountiful, and gave unto them battle, insomuch that they
began to retreat back towards the land of Zarahemla.

Helaman 1:30
 30 And it came to pass that Moronihah did head them in their
retreat, and did give unto them battle, insomuch that it became
an exceedingly bloody battle; yea, many were slain, and among the
number who were slain Coriantumr was also found.

Helaman 1:31
 31 And now, behold, the Lamanites could not retreat either way,
neither on the north, nor on the south, nor on the east, nor on
the west, for they were surrounded on every hand by the Nephites.

Helaman 1:32
 32 And thus had Coriantumr plunged the Lamanites into the midst
of the Nephites, insomuch that they were in the power of the
Nephites, and he himself was slain, and the Lamanites did yield
themselves into the hands of the Nephites.

Helaman 1:33
 33 And it came to pass that Moronihah took possession of the
city of Zarahemla again, and caused that the Lamanites who had
been taken prisoners should depart out of the land in peace.

Helaman 1:34
 34 And thus ended the forty and first year of the reign of the
judges.

Helaman 2
Chapter 2

Helaman 2:1
 1 And it came to pass in the forty and second year of the reign
of the judges, after Moronihah had established again peace
between the Nephites and the Lamanites, behold there was no one
to fill the judgment-seat; therefore there began to be a
contention again among the people concerning who should fill the
judgment-seat.

Helaman 2:2
 2 And it came to pass that Helaman, who was the son of Helaman,
was appointed to fill the judgment-seat, by the voice of the
people.

Helaman 2:3
 3 But behold, Kishkumen, who had murdered Pahoran, did lay wait
to destroy Helaman also; and he was upheld by his band, who had
entered into a covenant that no one should know his wickedness.

Helaman 2:4
 4 For there was one Gadianton, who was exceedingly expert in
many words, and also in his craft, to carry on the secret work of
murder and of robbery; therefore he became the leader of the band
of Kishkumen.

Helaman 2:5
 5 Therefore he did flatter them, and also Kishkumen, that if
they would place him in the judgment-seat he would grant unto
those who belonged to his band that they should be placed in
power and authority among the people; therefore Kishkumen sought
to destroy Helaman.

Helaman 2:6
 6 And it came to pass as he went forth towards the judgment-seat
to destroy Helaman, behold one of the servants of Helaman, having
been out by night, and having obtained, through disguise, a
knowledge of those plans which had been laid by this band to
destroy Helaman--

Helaman 2:7
 7 And it came to pass that he met Kishkumen, and he gave unto
him a sign; therefore Kishkumen made known unto him the object of
his desire, desiring that he would conduct him to the
judgment-seat that he might murder Helaman.

Helaman 2:8
 8 And when the servant of Helaman had known all the heart of
Kishkumen, and how that it was his object to murder, and also
that it was the object of all those who belonged to his band to
murder, and to rob, and to gain power, (and this was their secret
plan, and their combination) the servant of Helaman said unto
Kishkumen: Let us go forth unto the judgment-seat.

Helaman 2:9
 9 Now this did please Kishkumen exceedingly, for he did suppose
that he should accomplish his design; but behold, the servant of
Helaman, as they were going forth unto the judgment-seat, did
stab Kishkumen even to the heart, that he fell dead without a
groan.  And he ran and told Helaman all the things which he had
seen, and heard, and done.

Helaman 2:10
 10 And it came to pass that Helaman did send forth to take this
band of robbers and secret murderers, that they might be executed
according to the law.

Helaman 2:11
 11 But behold, when Gadianton had found that Kishkumen did not
return he feared lest that he should be destroyed; therefore he
caused that his band should follow him.  And they took their
flight out of the land, by a secret way, into the wilderness; and
thus when Helaman sent forth to take them they could nowhere be
found.

Helaman 2:12
 12 And more of this Gadianton shall be spoken hereafter.  And
thus ended the forty and second year of the reign of the judges
over the people of Nephi.

Helaman 2:13
 13 And behold, in the end of this book ye shall see that this
Gadianton did prove the overthrow, yea, almost the entire
destruction of the people of Nephi.

Helaman 2:14
 14 Behold I do not mean the end of the book of Helaman, but I
mean the end of the book of Nephi, from which I have taken all
the account which I have written.




Helaman 3
Chapter 3

Helaman 3:1
 1 And now it came to pass in the forty and third year of the
reign of the judges, there was no contention among the people of
Nephi save it were a little pride which was in the church, which
did cause some little dissensions among the people, which affairs
were settled in the ending of the forty and third year.

Helaman 3:2
 2 And there was no contention among the people in the forty and
fourth year; neither was there much contention in the forty and
fifth year.

Helaman 3:3
 3 And it came to pass in the forty and sixth, yea, there was
much contention and many dissensions; in the which there were an
exceedingly great many who departed out of the land of Zarahemla,
and went forth unto the land northward to inherit the land.

Helaman 3:4
 4 And they did travel to an exceedingly great distance, insomuch
that they came to large bodies of water and many rivers.

Helaman 3:5
 5 Yea, and even they did spread forth into all parts of the
land, into whatever parts it had not been rendered desolate and
without timber, because of the many inhabitants who had before
inherited the land.

Helaman 3:6
 6 And now no part of the land was desolate, save it were for
timber; but because of the greatness of the destruction of the
people who had before inhabited the land it was called desolate.

Helaman 3:7
 7 And there being but little timber upon the face of the land,
nevertheless the people who went forth became exceedingly expert
in the working of cement; therefore they did build houses of
cement, in the which they did dwell.

Helaman 3:8
 8 And it came to pass that they did multiply and spread, and did
go forth from the land southward to the land northward, and did
spread insomuch that they began to cover the face of the whole
earth, from the sea south to the sea north, from the sea west to
the sea east.

Helaman 3:9
 9 And the people who were in the land northward did dwell in
tents, and in houses of cement, and they did suffer whatsoever
tree should spring up upon the face of the land that it should
grow up, that in time they might have timber to build their
houses, yea, their cities, and their temples, and their
synagogues, and their sanctuaries, and all manner of their
buildings.

Helaman 3:10
 10 And it came to pass as timber was exceedingly scarce in the
land northward, they did send forth much by the way of shipping.

Helaman 3:11
 11 And thus they did enable the people in the land northward
that they might build many cities, both of wood and of cement.

Helaman 3:12
 12 And it came to pass that there were many of the people of
Ammon, who were Lamanites by birth, did also go forth into this
land.

Helaman 3:13
 13 And now there are many records kept of the proceedings of
this people, by many of this people, which are particular and
very large, concerning them.

Helaman 3:14
 14 But behold, a hundredth part of the proceedings of this
people, yea, the account of the Lamanites and of the Nephites,
and their wars, and contentions, and dissensions, and their
preaching, and their prophecies, and their shipping and their
building of ships, and their building of temples, and of
synagogues and their sanctuaries, and their righteousness, and
their wickedness, and their murders, and their robbings, and
their plundering, and all manner of abominations and whoredoms,
cannot be contained in this work.

Helaman 3:15
 15 But behold, there are many books and many records of every
kind, and they have been kept chiefly by the Nephites.

Helaman 3:16
 16 And they have been handed down from one generation to another
by the Nephites, even until they have fallen into transgression
and have been murdered, plundered, and hunted, and driven forth,
and slain, and scattered upon the face of the earth, and mixed
with the Lamanites until they are no more called the Nephites,
becoming wicked, and wild, and ferocious, yea, even becoming
Lamanites.

Helaman 3:17
 17 And now I return again to mine account; therefore, what I
have spoken had passed after there had been great contentions,
and disturbances, and wars, and dissensions, among the people of
Nephi.

Helaman 3:18
 18 The forty and sixth year of the reign of the judges ended;

Helaman 3:19
 19 And it came to pass that there was still great contention in
the land, yea, even in the forty and seventh year, and also in
the forty and eighth year.

Helaman 3:20
 20 Nevertheless Helaman did fill the judgment-seat with justice
and equity; yea, he did observe to keep the statutes, and the
judgments, and the commandments of God; and he did do that which
was right in the sight of God continually; and he did walk after
the ways of his father, insomuch that he did prosper in the land.

Helaman 3:21
 21 And it came to pass that he had two sons.  He gave unto the
eldest the name of Nephi, and unto the youngest, the name of
Lehi.  And they began to grow up unto the Lord.

Helaman 3:22
 22 And it came to pass that the wars and contentions began to
cease, in a small degree, among the people of the Nephites, in
the latter end of the forty and eighth year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi.

Helaman 3:23
 23 And it came to pass in the forty and ninth year of the reign
of the judges, there was continual peace established in the land,
all save it were the secret combinations which Gadianton the
robber had established in the more settled parts of the land,
which at that time were not known unto those who were at the head
of government; therefore they were not destroyed out of the land.

Helaman 3:24
 24 And it came to pass that in this same year there was
exceedingly great prosperity in the church, insomuch that there
were thousands who did join themselves unto the church and were
baptized unto repentance.

Helaman 3:25
 25 And so great was the prosperity of the church, and so many
the blessings which were poured out upon the people, that even
the high priests and the teachers were themselves astonished
beyond measure.

Helaman 3:26
 26 And it came to pass that the work of the Lord did prosper
unto the baptizing and uniting to the church of God, many souls,
yea, even tens of thousands.

Helaman 3:27
 27 Thus we may see that the Lord is merciful unto all who will,
in the sincerity of their hearts, call upon his holy name.

Helaman 3:28
 28 Yea, thus we see that the gate of heaven is open unto all,
even to those who will believe on the name of Jesus Christ, who
is the Son of God.

Helaman 3:29
 29 Yea, we see that whosoever will may lay hold upon the word of
God, which is quick and powerful, which shall divide asunder all
the cunning and the snares and the wiles of the devil, and lead
the man of Christ in a strait and narrow course across that
everlasting gulf of misery which is prepared to engulf the
wicked--

Helaman 3:30
 30 And land their souls, yea, their immortal souls, at the right
hand of God in the kingdom of heaven, to sit down with Abraham,
and Isaac, and with Jacob, and with all our holy fathers, to go
no more out.

Helaman 3:31
 31 And in this year there was continual rejoicing in the land of
Zarahemla, and in all the regions round about, even in all the
land which was possessed by the Nephites.

Helaman 3:32
 32 And it came to pass that there was peace and exceedingly
great joy in the remainder of the forty and ninth year; yea, and
also there was continual peace and great joy in the fiftieth year
of the reign of the judges.

Helaman 3:33
 33 And in the fifty and first year of the reign of the judges
there was peace also, save it were the pride which began to enter
into the church--not into the church of God, but into the hearts
of the people who professed to belong to the church of God--

Helaman 3:34
 34 And they were lifted up in pride, even to the persecution of
many of their brethren.  Now this was a great evil, which did
cause the more humble part of the people to suffer great
persecutions, and to wade through much affliction.

Helaman 3:35
 35 Nevertheless they did fast and pray oft, and did wax stronger
and stronger in their humility, and firmer and firmer in the
faith of Christ, unto the filling their souls with joy and
consolation, yea, even to the purifying and the sanctification of
their hearts, which sanctification cometh because of their
yielding their hearts unto God.

Helaman 3:36
 36 And it came to pass that the fifty and second year ended in
peace also, save it were the exceedingly great pride which had
gotten into the hearts of the people; and it was because of their
exceedingly great riches and their prosperity in the land; and it
did grow upon them from day to day.

Helaman 3:37
 37 And it came to pass in the fifty and third year of the reign
of the judges, Helaman died, and his eldest son Nephi began to
reign in his stead.  And it came to pass that he did fill the
judgment-seat with justice and equity; yea, he did keep the
commandments of God, and did walk in the ways of his father.

Helaman 4
Chapter 4

Helaman 4:1
 1 And it came to pass in the fifty and fourth year there were
many dissensions in the church, and there was also a contention
among the people, insomuch that there was much bloodshed.

Helaman 4:2
 2 And the rebellious part were slain and driven out of the land,
and they did go unto the king of the Lamanites.

Helaman 4:3
 3 And it came to pass that they did endeavor to stir up the
Lamanites to war against the Nephites; but behold, the Lamanites
were exceedingly afraid, insomuch that they would not hearken to
the words of those dissenters.

Helaman 4:4
 4 But it came to pass in the fifty and sixth year of the reign
of the judges, there were dissenters who went up from the
Nephites unto the Lamanites; and they succeeded with those others
in stirring them up to anger against the Nephites; and they were
all that year preparing for war.

Helaman 4:5
 5 And in the fifty and seventh year they did come down against
the Nephites to battle, and they did commence the work of death;
yea, insomuch that in the fifty and eighth year of the reign of
the judges they succeeded in obtaining possession of the land of
Zarahemla; yea, and also all the lands, even unto the land which
was near the land Bountiful.

Helaman 4:6
 6 And the Nephites and the armies of Moronihah were driven even
into the land of Bountiful;

Helaman 4:7
 7 And there they did fortify against the Lamanites, from the
west sea, even unto the east; it being a day's journey for a
Nephite, on the line which they had fortified and stationed their
armies to defend their north country.

Helaman 4:8
 8 And thus those dissenters of the Nephites, with the help of a
numerous army of the Lamanites, had obtained all the possession
of the Nephites which was in the land southward.  And all this
was done in the fifty and eighth and ninth years of the reign of
the judges.

Helaman 4:9
 9 And it came to pass in the sixtieth year of the reign of the
judges, Moronihah did succeed with his armies in obtaining many
parts of the land; yea, they regained many cities which had
fallen into the hands of the Lamanites.

Helaman 4:10
 10 And it came to pass in the sixty and first year of the reign
of the judges they succeeded in regaining even the half of all
their possessions.

Helaman 4:11
 11 Now this great loss of the Nephites, and the great slaughter
which was among them, would not have happened had it not been for
their wickedness and their abomination which was among them; yea,
and it was among those also who professed to belong to the church
of God.

Helaman 4:12
 12 And it was because of the pride of their hearts, because of
their exceeding riches, yea, it was because of their oppression
to the poor, withholding their food from the hungry, withholding
their clothing from the naked, and smiting their humble brethren
upon the cheek, making a mock of that which was sacred, denying
the spirit of prophecy and of revelation, murdering, plundering,
lying, stealing, committing adultery, rising up in great
contentions, and deserting away into the land of Nephi, among the
Lamanites--

Helaman 4:13
 13 And because of this their great wickedness, and their
boastings in their own strength, they were left in their own
strength; therefore they did not prosper, but were afflicted and
smitten, and driven before the Lamanites, until they had lost
possession of almost all their lands.

Helaman 4:14
 14 But behold, Moronihah did preach many things unto the people
because of their iniquity, and also Nephi and Lehi, who were the
sons of Helaman, did preach many things unto the people, yea, and
did prophesy many things unto them concerning their iniquities,
and what should come unto them if they did not repent of their
sins.

Helaman 4:15
 15 And it came to pass that they did repent, and inasmuch as
they did repent they did begin to prosper.

Helaman 4:16
 16 For when Moronihah saw that they did repent he did venture to
lead them forth from place to place, and from city to city, even
until they had regained the one-half of their property and the
one-half of all their lands.

Helaman 4:17
 17 And thus ended the sixty and first year of the reign of the
judges.

Helaman 4:18
 18 And it came to pass in the sixty and second year of the reign
of the judges, that Moronihah could obtain no more possessions
over the Lamanites.

Helaman 4:19
 19 Therefore they did abandon their design to obtain the
remainder of their lands, for so numerous were the Lamanites that
it became impossible for the Nephites to obtain more power over
them; therefore Moronihah did employ all his armies in
maintaining those parts which he had taken.

Helaman 4:20
 20 And it came to pass, because of the greatness of the number
of the Lamanites the Nephites were in great fear, lest they
should be overpowered, and trodden down, and slain, and
destroyed.

Helaman 4:21
 21 Yea, they began to remember the prophecies of Alma, and also
the words of Mosiah; and they saw that they had been a
stiffnecked people, and that they had set at naught the
commandments of God.

Helaman 4:22
 22 And that they had altered and trampled under their feet the
laws of Mosiah, or that which the Lord commanded him to give unto
the people; and they saw that their laws had become corrupted,
and that they had become a wicked people, insomuch that they were
wicked even like unto the Lamanites.

Helaman 4:23
 23 And because of their iniquity the church had begun to
dwindle; and they began to disbelieve in the spirit of prophecy
and in the spirit of revelation; and the judgments of God did
stare them in the face.

Helaman 4:24
 24 And they saw that they had become weak, like unto their
brethren, the Lamanites, and that the Spirit of the Lord did no
more preserve them; yea, it had withdrawn from them because the
Spirit of the Lord doth not dwell in unholy temples--

Helaman 4:25
 25 Therefore the Lord did cease to preserve them by his
miraculous and matchless power, for they had fallen into a state
of unbelief and awful wickedness; and they saw that the Lamanites
were exceedingly more numerous than they, and except they should
cleave unto the Lord their God, they must unavoidably perish.

Helaman 4:26
 26 For behold, they saw that the strength of the Lamanites was
as great as their strength, even man for man.  And thus had they
fallen into this great transgression; yea, thus had they become
weak, because of their transgression, in the space of not many
years.

Helaman 5
Chapter 5

Helaman 5:1
 1 And it came to pass that in this same year, behold, Nephi
delivered up the judgment-seat to a man whose name was Cezoram.

Helaman 5:2
 2 For as their laws and their governments were established by
the voice of the people, and they who chose evil were more
numerous than they who chose good, therefore they were ripening
for destruction, for the laws had become corrupted.

Helaman 5:3
 3 Yea, and this was not all; they were a stiffnecked people,
insomuch that they could not be governed by the law nor justice,
save it were to their destruction.

Helaman 5:4
 4 And it came to pass that Nephi had become weary because of
their iniquity; and he yielded up the judgment-seat, and took it
upon him to preach the word of God all the remainder of his days,
and his brother Lehi also, all the remainder of his days;

Helaman 5:5
 5 For they remembered the words which their father Helaman spake
unto them.  And these are the words which he spake:




Helaman 5:13
 13 And it came to pass that these were the words which Helaman
taught to his sons; yea, he did teach them many things which are
not written, and also many things which are written.

Helaman 5:14
 14 And they did remember his words; and therefore they went
forth, keeping the commandments of God, to teach the word of God
among all the people of Nephi, beginning at the city Bountiful;

Helaman 5:15
 15 And from thenceforth to the city of Gid; and from the city of
Gid to the city of Mulek;

Helaman 5:16
 16 And even from one city to another, until they had gone forth
among all the people of Nephi who were in the land southward; and
from thence into the land of Zarahemla, among the Lamanites.

Helaman 5:17
 17 And it came to pass that they did preach with great power,
insomuch that they did confound many of those dissenters who had
gone over from the Nephites, insomuch that they came forth and
did confess their sins and were baptized unto repentance, and
immediately returned to the Nephites to endeavor to repair unto
them the wrongs which they had done.

Helaman 5:18
 18 And it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi did preach unto the
Lamanites with such great power and authority, for they had power
and authority, given unto them that they might speak, and they
also had what they should speak given unto them--

Helaman 5:19
 19 Therefore they did speak unto the great astonishment of the
Lamanites, to the convincing them, insomuch that there were eight
thousand of the Lamanites who were in the land of Zarahemla and
round about baptized unto repentance, and were convinced of the
wickedness of the traditions of their fathers.

Helaman 5:20
 20 And it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi did proceed from
thence to go to the land of Nephi.

Helaman 5:21
 21 And it came to pass that they were taken by an army of the
Lamanites and cast into prison; yea, even in that same prison in
which Ammon and his brethren were cast by the servants of Limhi.

Helaman 5:22
 22 And after they had been cast into prison many days without
food, behold, they went forth into the prison to take them that
they might slay them.

Helaman 5:23
 23 And it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi were encircled about
as if by fire, even insomuch that they durst not lay their hands
upon them for fear lest they should be burned.  Nevertheless,
Nephi and Lehi were not burned; and they were as standing in the
midst of fire and were not burned.

Helaman 5:24
 24 And when they saw that they were encircled about with a
pillar of fire, and that it burned them not, their hearts did
take courage.

Helaman 5:25
 25 For they saw that the Lamanites durst not lay their hands
upon them; neither durst they come near unto them, but stood as
if they were struck dumb with amazement.

Helaman 5:26
 26 And it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi did stand forth and
began to speak unto them, saying: Fear not, for behold, it is God
that has shown unto you this marvelous thing, in the which is
shown unto you that ye cannot lay your hands on us to slay us.

Helaman 5:27
 27 And behold, when they had said these words, the earth shook
exceedingly, and the walls of the prison did shake as if they
were about to tumble to the earth; but behold, they did not fall.

And behold, they that were in the prison were Lamanites and
Nephites who were dissenters.

Helaman 5:28
 28 And it came to pass that they were overshadowed with a cloud
of darkness, and an awful solemn fear came upon them.

Helaman 5:29
 29 And it came to pass that there came a voice as if it were
above the cloud of darkness, saying:



Helaman 5:30
 30 And it came to pass when they heard this voice, and beheld
that it was not a voice of thunder, neither was it a voice of a
great tumultuous noise, but behold, it was a still voice of
perfect mildness, as if it had been a whisper, and it did pierce
even to the very soul--

Helaman 5:31
 31 And notwithstanding the mildness of the voice, behold the
earth shook exceedingly, and the walls of the prison trembled
again, as if it were about to tumble to the earth; and behold the
cloud of darkness, which had overshadowed them, did not
disperse--

Helaman 5:32
 32 And behold the voice came again, saying:


And it came to pass that the earth shook
again, and the walls trembled.

Helaman 5:33
 33 And also again the third time the voice came, and did speak
unto them marvelous words which cannot be uttered by man; and the
walls did tremble again, and the earth shook as if it were about
to divide asunder.

Helaman 5:34
 34 And it came to pass that the Lamanites could not flee because
of the cloud of darkness which did overshadow them; yea, and also
they were immovable because of the fear which did come upon them.

Helaman 5:35
 35 Now there was one among them who was a Nephite by birth, who
had once belonged to the church of God but had dissented from
them.

Helaman 5:36
 36 And it came to pass that he turned him about, and behold, he
saw through the cloud of darkness the faces of Nephi and Lehi;
and behold, they did shine exceedingly, even as the faces of
angels.  And he beheld that they did lift their eyes to heaven;
and they were in the attitude as if talking or lifting their
voices to some being whom they beheld.

Helaman 5:37
 37 And it came to pass that this man did cry unto the multitude,
that they might turn and look.  And behold, there was power given
unto them that they did turn and look; and they did behold the
faces of Nephi and Lehi.

Helaman 5:38
 38 And they said unto the man: Behold, what do all these things
mean, and who is it with whom these men do converse?

Helaman 5:39
 39 Now the man's name was Aminadab.  And Aminadab said unto
them: 


Helaman 5:40
 40 And it came to pass that the Lamanites said unto him: What
shall we do, that this cloud of darkness may be removed from
overshadowing us?

Helaman 5:41
 41 And Aminadab said unto them: 


Helaman 5:42
 42 And it came to pass that they all did begin to cry unto the
voice of him who had shaken the earth; yea, they did cry even
until the cloud of darkness was dispersed.

Helaman 5:43
 43 And it came to pass that when they cast their eyes about, and
saw that the cloud of darkness was dispersed from overshadowing
them, behold, they saw that they were encircled about, yea every
soul, by a pillar of fire.

Helaman 5:44
 44 And Nephi and Lehi were in the midst of them; yea, they were
encircled about; yea, they were as if in the midst of a flaming
fire, yet it did harm them not, neither did it take hold upon the
walls of the prison; and they were filled with that joy which is
unspeakable and full of glory.

Helaman 5:45
 45 And behold, the Holy Spirit of God did come down from heaven,
and did enter into their hearts, and they were filled as if with
fire, and they could speak forth marvelous words.

Helaman 5:46
 46 And it came to pass that there came a voice unto them, yea, a
pleasant voice, as if it were a whisper, saying:



Helaman 5:48
 48 And now, when they heard this they cast up their eyes as if
to behold from whence the voice came; and behold, they saw the
heavens open; and angels came down out of heaven and ministered
unto them.

Helaman 5:49
 49 And there were about three hundred souls who saw and heard
these things; and they were bidden to go forth and marvel not,
neither should they doubt.

Helaman 5:50
 50 And it came to pass that they did go forth, and did minister
unto the people, declaring throughout all the regions round about
all the things which they had heard and seen, insomuch that the
more part of the Lamanites were convinced of them, because of the
greatness of the evidences which they had received.

Helaman 5:51
 51 And as many as were convinced did lay down their weapons of
war, and also their hatred and the tradition of their fathers.

Helaman 5:52
 52 And it came to pass that they did yield up unto the Nephites
the lands of their possession.

Helaman 6
Chapter 6

Helaman 6:1
 1 And it came to pass that when the sixty and second year of the
reign of the judges had ended, all these things had happened and
the Lamanites had become, the more part of them, a righteous
people, insomuch that their righteousness did exceed that of the
Nephites because of their firmness and their steadiness in the
faith.

Helaman 6:2
 2 For behold, there were many of the Nephites who had become
hardened and impenitent and grossly wicked, insomuch that they
did reject the word of God and all the preaching and prophesying
which did come among them.

Helaman 6:3
 3 Nevertheless, the people of the church did have great joy
because of the conversion of the Lamanites, yea, because of the
church of God, which had been established among them.  And they
did fellowship one with another and did rejoice one with another,
and did have great joy.

Helaman 6:4
 4 And it came to pass that many of the Lamanites did come down
into the land of Zarahemla, and did declare unto the people of
the Nephites the manner of their conversion, and did exhort them
to faith and repentance.

Helaman 6:5
 5 Yea, and many did preach with exceedingly great power and
authority, unto the bringing down many of them into the depths of
humility, to be the humble followers of God and the Lamb.

Helaman 6:6
 6 And it came to pass that many of the Lamanites did go into the
land northward; and also Nephi and Lehi went into the land
northward, to preach unto the people.  And thus ended the sixty
and third year.

Helaman 6:7
 7 And behold, there was peace in all the land, insomuch that the
Nephites did go into whatsoever part of the land they would,
whether among the Nephites or the Lamanites.

Helaman 6:8
 8 And it came to pass that the Lamanites did also go
whithersoever they would, whether it were among the Lamanites or
among the Nephites; and thus they did have free intercourse one
with another, to buy and to sell, and to get gain, according to
their desire.

Helaman 6:9
 9 And it came to pass that they became exceedingly rich, both
the Lamanites and the Nephites; and they did have an exceeding
plenty of gold, and of silver, and of all manner of precious
metals, both in the land south and in the land north.

Helaman 6:10
 10 Now the land south was called Lehi and the land north was
called Mulek, which was after the son of Zedekiah; for the Lord
did bring Mulek into the land north, and Lehi into the land
south.

Helaman 6:11
 11 And behold, there was all manner of gold in both these lands,
and of silver, and of precious ore of every kind; and there were
also curious workmen, who did work all kinds of ore and did
refine it; and thus they did become rich.

Helaman 6:12
 12 They did raise grain in abundance, both in the north and in
the south; and they did flourish exceedingly, both in the north
and in the south.  And they did multiply and wax exceedingly
strong in the land.  And they did raise many flocks and herds,
yea, many fatlings.

Helaman 6:13
 13 Behold their women did toil and spin, and did make all manner
of cloth, of fine-twined linen and cloth of every kind, to clothe
their nakedness.  And thus the sixty and fourth year did pass
away in peace.

Helaman 6:14
 14 And in the sixty and fifth year they did also have great joy
and peace, yea, much preaching and many prophecies concerning
that which was to come.  And thus passed away the sixty and fifth
year.

Helaman 6:15
 15 And it came to pass that in the sixty and sixth year of the
reign of the judges, behold, Cezoram was murdered by an unknown
hand as he sat upon the judgment-seat.  And it came to pass that
in the same year, that his son, who had been appointed by the
people in his stead, was also murdered.  And thus ended the sixty
and sixth year.

Helaman 6:16
 16 And in the commencement of the sixty and seventh year the
people began to grow exceedingly wicked again.

Helaman 6:17
 17 For behold, the Lord had blessed them so long with the riches
of the world that they had not been stirred up to anger, to wars,
nor to bloodshed; therefore they began to set their hearts upon
their riches; yea, they began to seek to get gain that they might
be lifted up one above another; therefore they began to commit
secret murders, and to rob and to plunder, that they might get
gain.

Helaman 6:18
 18 And now behold, those murderers and plunderers were a band
who had been formed by Kishkumen and Gadianton.  And now it had
come to pass that there were many, even among the Nephites, of
Gadianton's band.  But behold, they were more numerous among the
more wicked part of the Lamanites.  And they were called
Gadianton's robbers and murderers.

Helaman 6:19
 19 And it was they who did murder the chief judge Cezoram, and
his son, while in the judgment-seat; and behold, they were not
found.

Helaman 6:20
 20 And now it came to pass that when the Lamanites found that
there were robbers among them they were exceedingly sorrowful;
and they did use every means in their power to destroy them off
the face of the earth.

Helaman 6:21
 21 But behold, Satan did stir up the hearts of the more part of
the Nephites, insomuch that they did unite with those bands of
robbers, and did enter into their covenants and their oaths, that
they would protect and preserve one another in whatsoever
difficult circumstances they should be placed, that they should
not suffer for their murders, and their plunderings, and their
stealings.

Helaman 6:22
 22 And it came to pass that they did have their signs, yea,
their secret signs, and their secret words; and this that they
might distinguish a brother who had entered into the covenant,
that whatsoever wickedness his brother should do he should not be
injured by his brother, nor by those who did belong to his band,
who had taken this covenant.

Helaman 6:23
 23 And thus they might murder, and plunder, and steal, and
commit whoredoms and all manner of wickedness, contrary to the
laws of their country and also the laws of their God.

Helaman 6:24
 24 And whosoever of those who belonged to their band should
reveal unto the world of their wickedness and their abominations,
should be tried, not according to the laws of their country, but
according to the laws of their wickedness, which had been given
by Gadianton and Kishkumen.

Helaman 6:25
 25 Now behold, it is these secret oaths and covenants which Alma
commanded his son should not go forth unto the world, lest they
should be a means of bringing down the people unto destruction.

Helaman 6:26
 26 Now behold, those secret oaths and covenants did not come
forth unto Gadianton from the records which were delivered unto
Helaman; but behold, they were put into the heart of Gadianton by
that same being who did entice our first parents to partake of
the forbidden fruit--

Helaman 6:27
 27 Yea, that same being who did plot with Cain, that if he would
murder his brother Abel it should not be known unto the world. 
And he did plot with Cain and his followers from that time forth.

Helaman 6:28
 28 And also it is that same being who put it into the hearts of
the people to build a tower sufficiently high that they might get
to heaven.  And it was that same being who led on the people who
came from that tower into this land; who spread the works of
darkness and abominations over all the face of the land, until he
dragged the people down to an entire destruction, and to an
everlasting hell.

Helaman 6:29
 29 Yea, it is that same being who put it into the heart of
Gadianton to still carry on the work of darkness, and of secret
murder; and he has brought it forth from the beginning of man
even down to this time.

Helaman 6:30
 30 And behold, it is he who is the author of all sin.  And
behold, he doth carry on his works of darkness and secret murder,
and doth hand down their plots, and their oaths, and their
covenants, and their plans of awful wickedness, from generation
to generation according as he can get hold upon the hearts of the
children of men.

Helaman 6:31
 31 And now behold, he had got great hold upon the hearts of the
Nephites; yea, insomuch that they had become exceedingly wicked;
yea, the more part of them had turned out of the way of
righteousness, and did trample under their feet the commandments
of God, and did turn unto their own ways, and did build up unto
themselves idols of their gold and their silver.

Helaman 6:32
 32 And it came to pass that all these iniquities did come unto
them in the space of not many years, insomuch that a more part of
it had come unto them in the sixty and seventh year of the reign
of the judges over the people of Nephi.

Helaman 6:33
 33 And they did grow in their iniquities in the sixty and eighth
year also.

Helaman 6:34
 34 And thus we see that the Nephites did begin to dwindle in
unbelief, and grow in wickedness and abominations, while the
Lamanites began to grow exceedingly in the knowledge of their
God; yea, they did begin to keep his statutes and commandments,
and to walk in truth and uprightness before him.

Helaman 6:35
 35 And thus we see that the Spirit of the Lord began to withdraw
from the Nephites, because of the wickedness and the hardness of
their hearts.

Helaman 6:36
 36 And thus we see that the Lord began to pour out his Spirit
upon the Lamanites, because of their easiness and willingness to
believe in his words.

Helaman 6:37
 37 And it came to pass that the Lamanites did hunt the band of
robbers of Gadianton; and they did preach the word of God among
the more wicked part of them, insomuch that this band of robbers
was utterly destroyed from among the Lamanites.

Helaman 6:38
 38 And it came to pass on the other hand, that the Nephites did
build them up and support them, beginning at the more wicked part
of them, until they had overspread all the land of the Nephites,
and had seduced the more part of the righteous until they had
come down to believe in their works and partake of their spoils,
and to join with them in their secret murders and combinations.

Helaman 6:39
 39 And thus they did obtain the sole management of the
government, insomuch that they did trample under their feet and
smite and rend and turn their backs upon the poor and the meek,
and the humble followers of God.

Helaman 6:40
 40 And thus we see that they were in an awful state, and
ripening for an everlasting destruction.

Helaman 6:41
 41 And it came to pass that thus ended the sixty and eighth year
of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.

Helaman 7
Chapter 7

Helaman 7:1
 1 Behold, now it came to pass in the sixty and ninth year of the
reign of the judges over the people of the Nephites, that Nephi,
the son of Helaman, returned to the land of Zarahemla from the
land northward.

Helaman 7:2
 2 For he had been forth among the people who were in the land
northward, and did preach the word of God unto them, and did
prophesy many things unto them;

Helaman 7:3
 3 And they did reject all his words, insomuch that he could not
stay among them, but returned again unto the land of his
nativity.

Helaman 7:4
 4 And seeing the people in a state of such awful wickedness, and
those Gadianton robbers filling the judgment-seats--having
usurped the power and authority of the land; laying aside the
commandments of God, and not in the least aright before him;
doing no justice unto the children of men;

Helaman 7:5
 5 Condemning the righteous because of their righteousness;
letting the guilty and the wicked go unpunished because of their
money; and moreover to be held in office at the head of
government, to rule and do according to their wills, that they
might get gain and glory of the world, and, moreover, that they
might the more easily commit adultery, and steal, and kill, and
do according to their own wills--

Helaman 7:6
 6 Now this great iniquity had come upon the Nephites, in the
space of not many years; and when Nephi saw it, his heart was
swollen with sorrow within his breast; and he did exclaim in the
agony of his soul:


Helaman 7:10
 10 And behold, now it came to pass that it was upon a tower,
which was in the garden of Nephi, which was by the highway which
led to the chief market, which was in the city of Zarahemla;
therefore, Nephi had bowed himself upon the tower which was in
his garden, which tower was also near unto the garden gate by
which led the highway.

Helaman 7:11
 11 And it came to pass that there were certain men passing by
and saw Nephi as he was pouring out his soul unto God upon the
tower; and they ran and told the people what they had seen, and
the people came together in multitudes that they might know the
cause of so great mourning for the wickedness of the people.

Helaman 7:12
 12 And now, when Nephi arose he beheld the multitudes of people
who had gathered together.

Helaman 7:13
 13 And it came to pass that he opened his mouth and said unto
them:


Helaman 8
Chapter 8

Helaman 8:1
 1 And now it came to pass that when Nephi had said these words,
behold, there were men who were judges, who also belonged to the
secret band of Gadianton, and they were angry, and they cried out
against him, saying unto the people:



Helaman 8:3
 3 For behold, Nephi had spoken unto them concerning the
corruptness of their law; yea, many things did Nephi speak which
cannot be written; and nothing did he speak which was contrary to
the commandments of God.

Helaman 8:4
 4 And those judges were angry with him because he spake plainly
unto them concerning their secret works of darkness;
nevertheless, they durst not lay their own hands upon him, for
they feared the people lest they should cry out against them.

Helaman 8:5
 5 Therefore they did cry unto the people, saying: 



Helaman 8:7
 7 And it came to pass that thus they did stir up the people to
anger against Nephi, and raised contentions among them; for there
were some who did cry out: Let this man alone, for he is a good
man, and those things which he saith will surely come to pass
except we repent;

Helaman 8:8
 8 Yea, behold, all the judgments will come upon us which he has
testified unto us; for we know that he has testified aright unto
us concerning our iniquities.  And behold they are many, and he
knoweth as well all things which shall befall us as he knoweth of
our iniquities;

Helaman 8:9
 9 Yea, and behold, if he had not been a prophet he could not
have testified concerning those things.

Helaman 8:10
 10 And it came to pass that those people who sought to destroy
Nephi were compelled because of their fear, that they did not lay
their hands on him; therefore he began again to speak unto them,
seeing that he had gained favor in the eyes of some, insomuch
that the remainder of them did fear.

Helaman 8:11
 11 Therefore he was constrained to speak more unto them saying:


Helaman 9
Chapter 9

Helaman 9:1
 1 Behold, now it came to pass that when Nephi had spoken these
words, certain men who were among them ran to the judgment-seat;
yea, even there were five who went, and they said among
themselves, as they went:

Helaman 9:2
 2 Behold, now we will know of a surety whether this man be a
prophet and God hath commanded him to prophesy such marvelous
things unto us.  Behold, we do not believe that he hath; yea, we
do not believe that he is a prophet; nevertheless, if this thing
which he has said concerning the chief judge be true, that he be
dead, then will we believe that the other words which he has
spoken are true.

Helaman 9:3
 3 And it came to pass that they ran in their might, and came in
unto the judgment-seat; and behold, the chief judge had fallen to
the earth, and did lie in his blood.

Helaman 9:4
 4 And now behold, when they saw this they were astonished
exceedingly, insomuch that they fell to the earth; for they had
not believed the words which Nephi had spoken concerning the
chief judge.

Helaman 9:5
 5 But now, when they saw they believed, and fear came upon them
lest all the judgments which Nephi had spoken should come upon
the people; therefore they did quake, and had fallen to the
earth.

Helaman 9:6
 6 Now, immediately when the judge had been murdered--he being
stabbed by his brother by a garb of secrecy, and he fled, and the
servants ran and told the people, raising the cry of murder among
them;

Helaman 9:7
 7 And behold the people did gather themselves together unto the
place of the judgment-seat--and behold, to their astonishment
they saw those five men who had fallen to the earth.

Helaman 9:8
 8 And now behold, the people knew nothing concerning the
multitude who had gathered together at the garden of Nephi;
therefore they said among themselves: These men are they who have
murdered the judge, and God has smitten them that they could not
flee from us.

Helaman 9:9
 9 And it came to pass that they laid hold on them, and bound
them and cast them into prison.  And there was a proclamation
sent abroad that the judge was slain, and that the murderers had
been taken and were cast into prison.

Helaman 9:10
 10 And it came to pass that on the morrow the people did
assemble themselves together to mourn and to fast, at the burial
of the great chief judge who had been slain.

Helaman 9:11
 11 And thus also those judges who were at the garden of Nephi,
and heard his words, were also gathered together at the burial.

Helaman 9:12
 12 And it came to pass that they inquired among the people,
saying: Where are the five who were sent to inquire concerning
the chief judge whether he was dead?  And they answered and said:
Concerning this five whom ye say ye have sent, we know not; but
there are five who are the murderers, whom we have cast into
prison.

Helaman 9:13
 13 And it came to pass that the judges desired that they should
be brought; and they were brought, and behold they were the five
who were sent; and behold the judges inquired of them to know,
concerning the matter, and they told them all that they had done,
saying:

Helaman 9:14
 14 We ran and came to the place of the judgment-seat, and when
we saw all things even as Nephi had testified, we were astonished
insomuch that we fell to the earth; and when we were recovered
from our astonishment, behold they cast us into prison.

Helaman 9:15
 15 Now, as for the murder of this man, we know not who has done
it; and only this much we know, we ran and came according as ye
desired, and behold he was dead, according to the words of Nephi.

Helaman 9:16
 16 And now it came to pass that the judges did expound the
matter unto the people, and did cry out against Nephi, saying:



Helaman 9:18
 18 And it came to pass that the five were liberated on the day
of the burial.  Nevertheless, they did rebuke the judges in the
words which they had spoken against Nephi, and did contend with
them one by one, insomuch that they did confound them.

Helaman 9:19
 19 Nevertheless, they caused that Nephi should be taken and
bound and brought before the multitude, and they began to
question him in divers ways that they might cross him, that they
might accuse him to death--

Helaman 9:20
 20 Saying unto him: 



Helaman 9:21
 21 But Nephi said unto them:


Helaman 9:37
 37 And it came to pass that they went and did, even according as
Nephi had said unto them.  And behold, the words which he had
said were true; for according to the words he did deny; and also
according to the words he did confess.

Helaman 9:38
 38 And he was brought to prove that he himself was the very
murderer, insomuch that the five were set at liberty, and also
was Nephi.

Helaman 9:39
 39 And there were some of the Nephites who believed on the words
of Nephi; and there were some also, who believed because of the
testimony of the five, for they had been converted while they
were in prison.

Helaman 9:40
 40 And now there were some among the people, who said that Nephi
was a prophet.

Helaman 9:41
 41 And there were others who said: Behold, he is a god, for
except he was a god he could not know of all things.  For behold,
he has told us the thoughts of our hearts, and also has told us
things; and even he has brought unto our knowledge the true
murderer of our chief judge.

Helaman 10
Chapter 10

Helaman 10:1
 1 And it came to pass that there arose a division among the
people, insomuch that they divided hither and thither and went
their ways, leaving Nephi alone, as he was standing in the midst
of them.

Helaman 10:2
 2 And it came to pass that Nephi went his way towards his own
house, pondering upon the things which the Lord had shown unto
him.

Helaman 10:3
 3 And it came to pass as he was thus pondering--being much cast
down because of the wickedness of the people of the Nephites,
their secret works of darkness, and their murderings, and their
plunderings, and all manner of iniquities--and it came to pass as
he was thus pondering in his heart, behold, a voice came unto him
saying:


Helaman 10:12
 12 And behold, now it came to pass that when the Lord had spoken
these words unto Nephi, he did stop and did not go unto his own
house, but did return unto the multitudes who were scattered
about upon the face of the land, and began to declare unto them
the word of the Lord which had been spoken unto him, concerning
their destruction if they did not repent.

Helaman 10:13
 13 Now behold, notwithstanding that great miracle which Nephi
had done in telling them concerning the death of the chief judge,
they did harden their hearts and did not hearken unto the words
of the Lord.

Helaman 10:14
 14 Therefore Nephi did declare unto them the word of the Lord,
saying:



Helaman 10:15
 15 And it came to pass that when Nephi had declared unto them
the word, behold, they did still harden their hearts and would
not hearken unto his words; therefore they did revile against
him, and did seek to lay their hands upon him that they might
cast him into prison.

Helaman 10:16
 16 But behold, the power of God was with him, and they could not
take him to cast him into prison, for he was taken by the Spirit
and conveyed away out of the midst of them.

Helaman 10:17
 17 And it came to pass that thus he did go forth in the Spirit,
from multitude to multitude, declaring the word of God, even
until he had declared it unto them all, or sent it forth among
all the people.

Helaman 10:18
 18 And it came to pass that they would not hearken unto his
words; and there began to be contentions, insomuch that they were
divided against themselves and began to slay one another with the
sword.

Helaman 10:19
 19 And thus ended the seventy and first year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi.

Helaman 11
Chapter 11

Helaman 11:1
 1 And now it came to pass in the seventy and second year of the
reign of the judges that the contentions did increase, insomuch
that there were wars throughout all the land among all the people
of Nephi.

Helaman 11:2
 2 And it was this secret band of robbers who did carry on this
work of destruction and wickedness.  And this war did last all
that year; and in the seventy and third year it did also last.

Helaman 11:3
 3 And it came to pass that in this year Nephi did cry unto the
Lord, saying:



Helaman 11:5
 5 And so it was done, according to the words of Nephi.  And
there was a great famine upon the land, among all the people of
Nephi.  And thus in the seventy and fourth year the famine did
continue, and the work of destruction did cease by the sword but
became sore by famine.

Helaman 11:6
 6 And this work of destruction did also continue in the seventy
and fifth year.  For the earth was smitten that it was dry, and
did not yield forth grain in the season of grain; and the whole
earth was smitten, even among the Lamanites as well as among the
Nephites, so that they were smitten that they did perish by
thousands in the more wicked parts of the land.

Helaman 11:7
 7 And it came to pass that the people saw that they were about
to perish by famine, and they began to remember the Lord their
God; and they began to remember the words of Nephi.

Helaman 11:8
 8 And the people began to plead with their chief judges and
their leaders, that they would say unto Nephi: Behold, we know
that thou art a man of God, and therefore cry unto the Lord our
God that he turn away from us this famine, lest all the words
which thou hast spoken concerning our destruction be fulfilled.

Helaman 11:9
 9 And it came to pass that the judges did say unto Nephi,
according to the words which had been desired.  And it came to
pass that when Nephi saw that the people had repented and did
humble themselves in sackcloth, he cried again unto the Lord,
saying:


Helaman 11:17
 17 And it came to pass that in the seventy and sixth year the
Lord did turn away his anger from the people, and caused that
rain should fall upon the earth, insomuch that it did bring forth
her fruit in the season of her fruit.  And it came to pass that
it did bring forth her grain in the season of her grain.

Helaman 11:18
 18 And behold, the people did rejoice and glorify God, and the
whole face of the land was filled with rejoicing; and they did no
more seek to destroy Nephi, but they did esteem him as a great
prophet, and a man of God, having great power and authority given
unto him from God.

Helaman 11:19
 19 And behold, Lehi, his brother, was not a whit behind him as
to things pertaining to righteousness.

Helaman 11:20
 20 And thus it did come to pass that the people of Nephi began
to prosper again in the land, and began to build up their waste
places, and began to multiply and spread, even until they did
cover the whole face of the land, both on the northward and on
the southward, from the sea west to the sea east.

Helaman 11:21
 21 And it came to pass that the seventy and sixth year did end
in peace.  And the seventy and seventh year began in peace; and
the church did spread throughout the face of all the land; and
the more part of the people, both the Nephites and the Lamanites,
did belong to the church; and they did have exceedingly great
peace in the land; and thus ended the seventy and seventh year.

Helaman 11:22
 22 And also they had peace in the seventy and eighth year, save
it were a few contentions concerning the points of doctrine which
had been laid down by the prophets.

Helaman 11:23
 23 And in the seventy and ninth year there began to be much
strife.  But it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi, and many of
their brethren who knew concerning the true points of doctrine,
having many revelations daily, therefore they did preach unto the
people, insomuch that they did put an end to their strife in that
same year.

Helaman 11:24
 24 And it came to pass that in the eightieth year of the reign
of the judges over the people of Nephi, there were a certain
number of the dissenters from the people of Nephi, who had some
years before gone over unto the Lamanites, and taken upon
themselves the name of Lamanites, and also a certain number who
were real descendants of the Lamanites, being stirred up to anger
by them, or by those dissenters, therefore they commenced a war
with their brethren.

Helaman 11:25
 25 And they did commit murder and plunder; and then they would
retreat back into the mountains, and into the wilderness and
secret places, hiding themselves that they could not be
discovered, receiving daily an addition to their numbers,
inasmuch as there were dissenters that went forth unto them.

Helaman 11:26
 26 And thus in time, yea, even in the space of not many years,
they became an exceedingly great band of robbers; and they did
search out all the secret plans of Gadianton; and thus they
became robbers of Gadianton.

Helaman 11:27
 27 Now behold, these robbers did make great havoc, yea, even
great destruction among the people of Nephi, and also among the
people of the Lamanites.

Helaman 11:28
 28 And it came to pass that it was expedient that there should
be a stop put to this work of destruction; therefore they sent an
army of strong men into the wilderness and upon the mountains to
search out this band of robbers, and to destroy them.

Helaman 11:29
 29 But behold, it came to pass that in that same year they were
driven back even into their own lands.  And thus ended the
eightieth year of the reign of the judges over the people of
Nephi.

Helaman 11:30
 30 And it came to pass in the commencement of the eighty and
first year they did go forth again against this band of robbers,
and did destroy many; and they were also visited with much
destruction.

Helaman 11:31
 31 And they were again obliged to return out of the wilderness
and out of the mountains unto their own lands, because of the
exceeding greatness of the numbers of those robbers who infested
the mountains and the wilderness.

Helaman 11:32
 32 And it came to pass that thus ended this year.  And the
robbers did still increase and wax strong, insomuch that they did
defy the whole armies of the Nephites, and also of the Lamanites;
and they did cause great fear to come unto the people upon all
the face of the land.

Helaman 11:33
 33 Yea, for they did visit many parts of the land, and did do
great destruction unto them; yea, did kill many, and did carry
away others captive into the wilderness, yea, and more especially
their women and their children.

Helaman 11:34
 34 Now this great evil, which came unto the people because of
their iniquity, did stir them up again in remembrance of the Lord
their God.

Helaman 11:35
 35 And thus ended the eighty and first year of the reign of the
judges.

Helaman 11:36
 36 And in the eighty and second year they began again to forget
the Lord their God.  And in the eighty and third year they began
to wax strong in iniquity.  And in the eighty and fourth year
they did not mend their ways.

Helaman 11:37
 37 And it came to pass in the eighty and fifth year they did wax
stronger and stronger in their pride, and in their wickedness;
and thus they were ripening again for destruction.

Helaman 11:38
 38 And thus ended the eighty and fifth year.

Helaman 12
Chapter 12

Helaman 12:1
 1 And thus we can behold how false, and also the unsteadiness of
the hearts of the children of men; yea, we can see that the Lord
in his great infinite goodness doth bless and prosper those who
put their trust in him.

Helaman 12:2
 2 Yea, and we may see at the very time when he doth prosper his
people, yea, in the increase of their fields, their flocks and
their herds, and in gold, and in silver, and in all manner of
precious things of every kind and art; sparing their lives, and
delivering them out of the hands of their enemies; softening the
hearts of their enemies that they should not declare wars against
them; yea, and in fine, doing all things for the welfare and
happiness of his people; yea, then is the time that they do
harden their hearts, and do forget the Lord their God, and do
trample under their feet the Holy One--yea, and this because of
their ease, and their exceedingly great prosperity.

Helaman 12:3
 3 And thus we see that except the Lord doth chasten his people
with many afflictions, yea, except he doth visit them with death
and with terror, and with famine and with all manner of
pestilence, they will not remember him.

Helaman 12:4
 4 O how foolish, and how vain, and how evil, and devilish, and
how quick to do iniquity, and how slow to do good, are the
children of men; yea, how quick to hearken unto the words of the
evil one, and to set their hearts upon the vain things of the
world!

Helaman 12:5
 5 Yea, how quick to be lifted up in pride; yea, how quick to
boast, and do all manner of that which is iniquity; and how slow
are they to remember the Lord their God, and to give ear unto his
counsels, yea, how slow to walk in wisdom's paths!

Helaman 12:6
 6 Behold, they do not desire that the Lord their God, who hath
created them, should rule and reign over them; notwithstanding
his great goodness and his mercy towards them, they do set at
naught his counsels, and they will not that he should be their
guide.

Helaman 12:7
 7 O how great is the nothingness of the children of men; yea,
even they are less than the dust of the earth.

Helaman 12:8
 8 For behold, the dust of the earth moveth hither and thither,
to the dividing asunder, at the command of our great and
everlasting God.

Helaman 12:9
 9 Yea, behold at his voice do the hills and the mountains
tremble and quake.

Helaman 12:10
 10 And by the power of his voice they are broken up, and become
smooth, yea, even like unto a valley.

Helaman 12:11
 11 Yea, by the power of his voice doth the whole earth shake;

Helaman 12:12
 12 Yea, by the power of his voice, do the foundations rock, even
to the very center.

Helaman 12:13
 13 Yea, and if he say unto the earth--Move--it is moved.

Helaman 12:14
 14 Yea, if he say unto the earth--Thou shalt go back, that it
lengthen out the day for many hours--it is done;

Helaman 12:15
 15 And thus, according to his word the earth goeth back, and it
appeareth unto man that the sun standeth still; yea, and behold,
this is so; for surely it is the earth that moveth and not the
sun.


Helaman 12:16
 16 And behold, also, if he say unto the waters of the great
deep--Be thou dried up--it is done.

Helaman 12:17
 17 Behold, if he say unto this mountain--Be thou raised up, and
come over and fall upon that city, that it be buried up--behold
it is done.

Helaman 12:18
 18 And behold, if a man hide up a treasure in the earth, and the
Lord shall say--Let it be accursed, because of the iniquity of
him who hath hid it up--behold, it shall be accursed.

Helaman 12:19
 19 And if the Lord shall say--Be thou accursed, that no man
shall find thee from this time henceforth and forever--behold, no
man getteth it henceforth and forever.

Helaman 12:20
 20 And behold, if the Lord shall say unto a man--Because of
thine iniquities, thou shalt be accursed forever--it shall be
done.

Helaman 12:21
 21 And if the Lord shall say--Because of thine iniquities thou
shalt be cut off from my presence--he will cause that it shall be
so.

Helaman 12:22
 22 And wo unto him to whom he shall say this, for it shall be
unto him that will do iniquity, and he cannot be saved;
therefore, for this cause, that men might be saved, hath
repentance been declared.

Helaman 12:23
 23 Therefore, blessed are they who will repent and hearken unto
the voice of the Lord their God; for these are they that shall be
saved.

Helaman 12:24
 24 And may God grant, in his great fulness, that men might be
brought unto repentance and good works, that they might be
restored unto grace for grace, according to their works.

Helaman 12:25
 25 And I would that all men might be saved.  But we read that in
the great and last day there are some who shall be cast out, yea,
who shall be cast off from the presence of the Lord;

Helaman 12:26
 26 Yea, who shall be consigned to a state of endless misery,
fulfilling the words which say: They that have done good shall
have everlasting life; and they that have done evil shall have
everlasting damnation.  And thus it is.  Amen.

Helaman 13
Chapter 13

Helaman 13:1
 1 And now it came to pass in the eighty and sixth year, the
Nephites did still remain in wickedness, yea in great wickedness,
while the Lamanites did observe strictly to keep the commandments
of God, according to the law of Moses.

Helaman 13:2
 2 And it came to pass that in this year there was one Samuel, a
Lamanite, came into the land of Zarahemla, and began to preach
unto the people.  And it came to pass that he did preach, many
days, repentance unto the people, and they did cast him out, and
he was about to return to his own land.

Helaman 13:3
 3 But behold, the voice of the Lord came unto him, that he
should return again, and prophesy unto the people whatsoever
things should come into his heart.

Helaman 13:4
 4 And it came to pass that they would not suffer that he should
enter into the city; therefore he went and got upon the wall
thereof, and stretched forth his hand and cried with a loud
voice, and prophesied unto the people whatsoever things the Lord
put into his heart.

Helaman 13:5
 5 And he said unto them:


Helaman 16
Chapter 16

Helaman 16:1
 1 And now, it came to pass that there were many who heard the
words of Samuel, the Lamanite, which he spake upon the walls of
the city.  And as many as believed on his word went forth and
sought for Nephi; and when they had come forth and found him they
confessed unto him their sins and denied not, desiring that they
might be baptized unto the Lord.

Helaman 16:2
 2 But as many as there were who did not believe in the words of
Samuel were angry with him; and they cast stones at him upon the
wall, and also many shot arrows at him as he stood upon the wall;
but the Spirit of the Lord was with him, insomuch that they could
not hit him with their stones neither with their arrows.

Helaman 16:3
 3 Now when they saw that they could not hit him, there were many
more who did believe on his words, insomuch that they went away
unto Nephi to be baptized.

Helaman 16:4
 4 For behold, Nephi was baptizing, and prophesying, and
preaching, crying repentance unto the people, showing signs and
wonders, working miracles among the people, that they might know
that the Christ must shortly come--

Helaman 16:5
 5 Telling them of things which must shortly come, that they
might know and remember at the time of their coming that they had
been made known unto them beforehand, to the intent that they
might believe; therefore as many as believed on the words of
Samuel went forth unto him to be baptized, for they came
repenting and confessing their sins.

Helaman 16:6
 6 But the more part of them did not believe in the words of
Samuel; therefore when they saw that they could not hit him with
their stones and their arrows, they cried unto their captains,
saying: Take this fellow and bind him, for behold he hath a
devil; and because of the power of the devil which is in him we
cannot hit him with our stones and our arrows; therefore take him
and bind him, and away with him.

Helaman 16:7
 7 And as they went forth to lay their hands on him, behold, he
did cast himself down from the wall, and did flee out of their
lands, yea, even unto his own country, and began to preach and to
prophesy among his own people.

Helaman 16:8
 8 And behold, he was never heard of more among the Nephites; and
thus were the affairs of the people.

Helaman 16:9
 9 And thus ended the eighty and sixth year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi.

Helaman 16:10
 10 And thus ended also the eighty and seventh year of the reign
of the judges, the more part of the people remaining in their
pride and wickedness, and the lesser part walking more
circumspectly before God.

Helaman 16:11
 11 And these were the conditions also, in the eighty and eighth
year of the reign of the judges.

Helaman 16:12
 12 And there was but little alteration in the affairs of the
people, save it were the people began to be more hardened in
iniquity, and do more and more of that which was contrary to the
commandments of God, in the eighty and ninth year of the reign of
the judges.

Helaman 16:13
 13 But it came to pass in the ninetieth year of the reign of the
judges, there were great signs given unto the people, and
wonders; and the words of the prophets began to be fulfilled.

Helaman 16:14
 14 And angels did appear unto men, wise men, and did declare
unto them glad tidings of great joy; thus in this year the
scriptures began to be fulfilled.

Helaman 16:15
 15 Nevertheless, the people began to harden their hearts, all
save it were the most believing part of them, both of the
Nephites and also of the Lamanites, and began to depend upon
their own strength and upon their own wisdom, saying:

Helaman 16:16
 16 Some things they may have guessed right, among so many; but
behold, we know that all these great and marvelous works cannot
come to pass, of which has been spoken.

Helaman 16:17
 17 And they began to reason and to contend among themselves,
saying:

Helaman 16:18
 18 That it is not reasonable that such a being as a Christ shall
come; if so, and he be the Son of God, the Father of heaven and
of earth, as it has been spoken, why will he not show himself
unto us as well as unto them who shall be at Jerusalem?

Helaman 16:19
 19 Yea, why will he not show himself in this land as well as in
the land of Jerusalem?

Helaman 16:20
 20 But behold, we know that this is a wicked tradition, which
has been handed down unto us by our fathers, to cause us that we
should believe in some great and marvelous thing which should
come to pass, but not among us, but in a land which is far
distant, a land which we know not; therefore they can keep us in
ignorance, for we cannot witness with our own eyes that they are
true.

Helaman 16:21
 21 And they will, by the cunning and the mysterious arts of the
evil one, work some great mystery which we cannot understand,
which will keep us down to be servants to their words, and also
servants unto them, for we depend upon them to teach us the word;
and thus will they keep us in ignorance if we will yield
ourselves unto them, all the days of our lives.

Helaman 16:22
 22 And many more things did the people imagine up in their
hearts, which were foolish and vain; and they were much
disturbed, for Satan did stir them up to do iniquity continually;
yea, he did go about spreading rumors and contentions upon all
the face of the land, that he might harden the hearts of the
people against that which was good and against that which should
come.

Helaman 16:23
 23 And notwithstanding the signs and the wonders which were
wrought among the people of the Lord, and the many miracles which
they did, Satan did get great hold upon the hearts of the people
upon all the face of the land.

Helaman 16:24
 24 And thus ended the ninetieth year of the reign of the judges
over the people of Nephi.

Helaman 16:25
 25 And thus ended the book of Helaman, according to the record
of Helaman and his sons.











