
Mosiah
THE BOOK OF MOSIAH

Mosiah 1
Chapter 1

Mosiah 1:1
 1 And now there was no more contention in all the land of
Zarahemla, among all the people who belonged to king Benjamin, so
that king Benjamin had continual peace all the remainder of his
days.

Mosiah 1:2
 2 And it came to pass that he had three sons; and he called
their names Mosiah, and Helorum, and Helaman.  And he caused that
they should be taught in all the language of his fathers, that
thereby they might become men of understanding; and that they
might know concerning the prophecies which had been spoken by the
mouths of their fathers, which were delivered them by the hand of
the Lord.

Mosiah 1:3
 3 And he also taught them concerning the records which were
engraven on the plates of brass, saying:





Mosiah 1:8
 8 And many more things did king Benjamin teach his sons, which
are not written in this book.

Mosiah 1:9
 9 And it came to pass that after king Benjamin had made an end
of teaching his sons, that he waxed old, and he saw that he must
very soon go the way of all the earth; therefore, he thought it
expedient that he should confer the kingdom upon one of his sons.

Mosiah 1:10
 10 Therefore, he had Mosiah brought before him; and these are
the words which he spake unto him, saying:






Mosiah 1:15
 15 And it came to pass that after king Benjamin had made an end
of these sayings to his son, that he gave him charge concerning
all the affairs of the kingdom.

Mosiah 1:16
 16 And moreover, he also gave him charge concerning the records
which were engraven on the plates of brass; and also the plates
of Nephi; and also, the sword of Laban, and the ball or director,
which led our fathers through the wilderness, which was prepared
by the hand of the Lord that thereby they might be led, every one
according to the heed and diligence which they gave unto him.

Mosiah 1:17
 17 Therefore, as they were unfaithful they did not prosper nor
progress in their journey, but were driven back, and incurred the
displeasure of God upon them; and therefore they were smitten
with famine and sore afflictions, to stir them up in remembrance
of their duty.

Mosiah 1:18
 18 And now, it came to pass that Mosiah went and did as his
father had commanded him, and proclaimed unto all the people who
were in the land of Zarahemla that thereby they might gather
themselves together, to go up to the temple to hear the words
which his father should speak unto them.

Mosiah 2
Chapter 2

Mosiah 2:1
 1 And it came to pass that after Mosiah had done as his father
had commanded him, and had made a proclamation throughout all the
land, that the people gathered themselves together throughout all
the land, that they might go up to the temple to hear the words
which king Benjamin should speak unto them.

Mosiah 2:2
 2 And there were a great number, even so many that they did not
number them; for they had multiplied exceedingly and waxed great
in the land.

Mosiah 2:3
 3 And they also took of the firstlings of their flocks, that
they might offer sacrifice and burnt offerings according to the
law of Moses;

Mosiah 2:4
 4 And also that they might give thanks to the Lord their God,
who had brought them out of the land of Jerusalem, and who had
delivered them out of the hands of their enemies, and had
appointed just men to be their teachers, and also a just man to
be their king, who had established peace in the land of
Zarahemla, and who had taught them to keep the commandments of
God, that they might rejoice and be filled with love towards God
and all men.

Mosiah 2:5
 5 And it came to pass that when they came up to the temple, they
pitched their tents round about, every man according to his
family, consisting of his wife, and his sons, and his daughters,
and their sons, and their daughters, from the eldest down to the
youngest, every family being separate one from another.

Mosiah 2:6
 6 And they pitched their tents round about the temple, every man
having his tent with the door thereof towards the temple, that
thereby they might remain in their tents and hear the words which
king Benjamin should speak unto them;

Mosiah 2:7
 7 For the multitude being so great that king Benjamin could not
teach them all within the walls of the temple, therefore he
caused a tower to be erected, that thereby his people might hear
the words which he should speak unto them.

Mosiah 2:8
 8 And it came to pass that he began to speak to his people from
the tower; and they could not all hear his words because of the
greatness of the multitude; therefore he caused that the words
which he spake should be written and sent forth among those that
were not under the sound of his voice, that they might also
receive his words.

Mosiah 2:9
 9 And these are the words which he spake and caused to be
written, saying:






Mosiah 4
Chapter 4

Mosiah 4:1
 1 And now, it came to pass that when king Benjamin had made an
end of speaking the words which had been delivered unto him by
the angel of the Lord, that he cast his eyes round about on the
multitude, and behold they had fallen to the earth, for the fear
of the Lord had come upon them.

Mosiah 4:2
 2 And they had viewed themselves in their own carnal state, even
less than the dust of the earth.  And they all cried aloud with
one voice, saying: O have mercy, and apply the atoning blood of
Christ that we may receive forgiveness of our sins, and our
hearts may be purified; for we believe in Jesus Christ, the Son
of God, who created heaven and earth, and all things; who shall
come down among the children of men.

Mosiah 4:3
 3 And it came to pass that after they had spoken these words the
Spirit of the Lord came upon them, and they were filled with joy,
having received a remission of their sins, and having peace of
conscience, because of the exceeding faith which they had in
Jesus Christ who should come, according to the words which king
Benjamin had spoken unto them.

Mosiah 4:4
 4 And king Benjamin again opened his mouth and began to speak
unto them, saying:





Mosiah 5
Chapter 5

Mosiah 5:1
 1 And now, it came to pass that when king Benjamin had thus
spoken to his people, he sent among them, desiring to know of his
people if they believed the words which he had spoken unto them.

Mosiah 5:2
 2 And they all cried with one voice, saying: Yea, we believe all
the words which thou hast spoken unto us; and also, we know of
their surety and truth, because of the Spirit of the Lord
Omnipotent, which has wrought a mighty change in us, or in our
hearts, that we have no more disposition to do evil, but to do
good continually.

Mosiah 5:3
 3 And we, ourselves, also, through the infinite goodness of God,
and the manifestations of his Spirit, have great views of that
which is to come; and were it expedient, we could prophesy of all
things.

Mosiah 5:4
 4 And it is the faith which we have had on the things which our
king has spoken unto us that has brought us to this great
knowledge, whereby we do rejoice with such exceedingly great joy.

Mosiah 5:5
 5 And we are willing to enter into a covenant with our God to do
his will, and to be obedient to his commandments in all things
that he shall command us, all the remainder of our days, that we
may not bring upon ourselves a never-ending torment, as has been
spoken by the angel, that we may not drink out of the cup of the
wrath of God.

Mosiah 5:6
 6 And now, these are the words which king Benjamin desired of
them; and therefore he said unto them: 





Mosiah 6
Chapter 6

Mosiah 6:1
 1 And now, king Benjamin thought it was expedient, after having
finished speaking to the people, that he should take the names of
all those who had entered into a covenant with God to keep his
commandments.

Mosiah 6:2
 2 And it came to pass that there was not one soul, except it
were little children, but who had entered into the covenant and
had taken upon them the name of Christ.

Mosiah 6:3
 3 And again, it came to pass that when king Benjamin had made an
end of all these things, and had consecrated his son Mosiah to be
a ruler and a king over his people, and had given him all the
charges concerning the kingdom, and also had appointed priests to
teach the people, that thereby they might hear and know the
commandments of God, and to stir them up in remembrance of the
oath which they had made, he dismissed the multitude, and they
returned, every one, according to their families, to their own
houses.

Mosiah 6:4
 4 And Mosiah began to reign in his father's stead.  And he began
to reign in the thirtieth year of his age, making in the whole,
about four hundred and seventy-six years from the time that Lehi
left Jerusalem.

Mosiah 6:5
 5 And king Benjamin lived three years and he died.

Mosiah 6:6
 6 And it came to pass that king Mosiah did walk in the ways of
the Lord, and did observe his judgments and his statutes, and did
keep his commandments in all things whatsoever he commanded him.

Mosiah 6:7
 7 And king Mosiah did cause his people that they should till the
earth.  And he also, himself, did till the earth, that thereby he
might not become burdensome to his people, that he might do
according to that which his father had done in all things.  And
there was no contention among all his people for the space of
three years.

Mosiah 7
Chapter 7

Mosiah 7:1
 1 And now, it came to pass that after king Mosiah had had
continual peace for the space of three years, he was desirous to
know concerning the people who went up to dwell in the land of
Lehi-Nephi, or in the city of Lehi-Nephi; for his people had
heard nothing from them from the time they left the land of
Zarahemla; therefore, they wearied him with their teasings.

Mosiah 7:2
 2 And it came to pass that king Mosiah granted that sixteen of
their strong men might go up to the land of Lehi-Nephi to inquire
concerning their brethren.

Mosiah 7:3
 3 And it came to pass that on the morrow they started to go up,
having with them one Ammon, he being a strong and mighty man, and
a descendant of Zarahemla; and he was also their leader.

Mosiah 7:4
 4 And now, they knew not the course they should travel in the
wilderness to go up to the land of Lehi-Nephi; therefore they
wandered many days in the wilderness, even forty days did they
wander.

Mosiah 7:5
 5 And when they had wandered forty days they came to a hill,
which is north of the land of Shilom, and there they pitched
their tents.

Mosiah 7:6
 6 And Ammon took three of his brethren, and their names were
Amaleki, Helem, and Hem, and they went down into the land of
Nephi.

Mosiah 7:7
 7 And behold, they met the king of the people who were in the
land of Nephi, and in the land of Shilom; and they were
surrounded by the king's guard, and were taken, and were bound,
and were committed to prison.

Mosiah 7:8
 8 And it came to pass when they had been in prison two days they
were again brought before the king, and their bands were loosed;
and they stood before the king, and were permitted, or rather
commanded, that they should answer the questions which he should
ask them.

Mosiah 7:9
 9 And he said unto them:

 

 
Mosiah 7:16
 16 And now, king Limhi commanded his guards that they should no
more bind Ammon nor his brethren, but caused that they should go
to the hill which was north of Shilom, and bring their brethren
into the city, that thereby they might eat, and drink, and rest
themselves from the labors of their journey; for they had
suffered many things; they had suffered hunger, thirst, and
fatigue.

Mosiah 7:17
 17 And now, it came to pass on the morrow that king Limhi sent a
proclamation among all his people, that thereby they might gather
themselves together to the temple to hear the words which he
should speak unto them.

Mosiah 7:18
 18 And it came to pass that when they had gathered themselves
together that he spake unto them in this wise, saying:





Mosiah 8
Chapter 8

Mosiah 8:1
 1 And it came to pass that after king Limhi had made an end of
speaking to his people, for he spake many things unto them and
only a few of them have I written in this book, he told his
people all the things concerning their brethren who were in the
land of Zarahemla.

Mosiah 8:2
 2 And he caused that Ammon should stand up before the multitude,
and rehearse unto them all that had happened unto their brethren
from the time that Zeniff went up out of the land even until the
time that he himself came up out of the land.

Mosiah 8:3
 3 And he also rehearsed unto them the last words which king
Benjamin had taught them, and explained them to the people of
king Limhi, so that they might understand all the words which he
spake.

Mosiah 8:4
 4 And it came to pass that after he had done all this, that king
Limhi dismissed the multitude, and caused that they should return
every one unto his own house.

Mosiah 8:5
 5 And it came to pass that he caused that the plates which
contained the record of his people from the time that they left
the land of Zarahemla, should be brought before Ammon, that he
might read them.

Mosiah 8:6
 6 Now, as soon as Ammon had read the record, the king inquired
of him to know if he could interpret languages, and Ammon told
him that he could not.

Mosiah 8:7
 7 And the king said unto him: Being grieved for the afflictions
of my people, I caused that forty and three of my people should
take a journey into the wilderness, that thereby they might find
the land of Zarahemla, that we might appeal unto our brethren to
deliver us out of bondage.

Mosiah 8:8
 8 And they were lost in the wilderness for the space of many
days, yet they were diligent, and found not the land of Zarahemla
but returned to this land, having traveled in a land among many
waters, having discovered a land which was covered with bones of
men, and of beasts, and was also covered with ruins of buildings
of every kind, having discovered a land which had been peopled
with a people who were as numerous as the hosts of Israel.

Mosiah 8:9
 9 And for a testimony that the things that they had said are
true they have brought twenty-four plates which are filled with
engravings, and they are of pure gold.

Mosiah 8:10
 10 And behold, also, they have brought breastplates, which are
large, and they are of brass and of copper, and are perfectly
sound.

Mosiah 8:11
 11 And again, they have brought swords, the hilts thereof have
perished, and the blades thereof were cankered with rust; and
there is no one in the land that is able to interpret the
language or the engravings that are on the plates.  Therefore I
said unto thee: Canst thou translate?

Mosiah 8:12
 12 And I say unto thee again: Knowest thou of any one that can
translate?  For I am desirous that these records should be
translated into our language; for, perhaps, they will give us a
knowledge of a remnant of the people who have been destroyed,
from whence these records came; or, perhaps, they will give us a
knowledge of this very people who have been destroyed; and I am
desirous to know the cause of their destruction.

Mosiah 8:13
 13 Now Ammon said unto him: I can assuredly tell thee, O king,
of a man that can translate the records; for he has wherewith
that he can look, and translate all records that are of ancient
date; and it is a gift from God.  And the things are called
interpreters, and no man can look in them except he be commanded,
lest he should look for that he ought not and he should perish. 
And whosoever is commanded to look in them, the same is called
seer.

Mosiah 8:14
 14 And behold, the king of the people who are in the land of
Zarahemla is the man that is commanded to do these things, and
who has this high gift from God.

Mosiah 8:15
 15 And the king said that a seer is greater than a prophet.

Mosiah 8:16
 16 And Ammon said that a seer is a revelator and a prophet also;
and a gift which is greater can no man have, except he should
possess the power of God, which no man can; yet a man may have
great power given him from God.

Mosiah 8:17
 17 But a seer can know of things which are past, and also of
things which are to come, and by them shall all things be
revealed, or, rather, shall secret things be made manifest, and
hidden things shall come to light, and things which are not known
shall be made known by them, and also things shall be made known
by them which otherwise could not be known.

Mosiah 8:18
 18 Thus God has provided a means that man, through faith, might
work mighty miracles; therefore he becometh a great benefit to
his fellow beings.

Mosiah 8:19
 19 And now, when Ammon had made an end of speaking these words
the king rejoiced exceedingly, and gave thanks to God, saying:






Mosiah 11
Chapter 11

Mosiah 11:1
 1 And now it came to pass that Zeniff conferred the kingdom upon
Noah, one of his sons; therefore Noah began to reign in his
stead; and he did not walk in the ways of his father.

Mosiah 11:2
 2 For behold, he did not keep the commandments of God, but he
did walk after the desires of his own heart.  And he had many
wives and concubines.  And he did cause his people to commit sin,
and do that which was abominable in the sight of the Lord.  Yea,
and they did commit whoredoms and all manner of wickedness.

Mosiah 11:3
 3 And he laid a tax of one fifth part of all they possessed, a
fifth part of their gold and of their silver, and a fifth part of
their ziff, and of their copper, and of their brass and their
iron; and a fifth part of their fatlings; and also a fifth part
of all their grain.

Mosiah 11:4
 4 And all this did he take to support himself, and his wives and
his concubines; and also his priests, and their wives and their
concubines; thus he had changed the affairs of the kingdom.

Mosiah 11:5
 5 For he put down all the priests that had been consecrated by
his father, and consecrated new ones in their stead, such as were
lifted up in the pride of their hearts.

Mosiah 11:6
 6 Yea, and thus they were supported in their laziness, and in
their idolatry, and in their whoredoms, by the taxes which king
Noah had put upon his people; thus did the people labor
exceedingly to support iniquity.

Mosiah 11:7
 7 Yea, and they also became idolatrous, because they were
deceived by the vain and flattering words of the king and
priests; for they did speak flattering things unto them.

Mosiah 11:8
 8 And it came to pass that king Noah built many elegant and
spacious buildings; and he ornamented them with fine work of
wood, and of all manner of precious things, of gold, and of
silver, and of iron, and of brass, and of ziff, and of copper;

Mosiah 11:9
 9 And he also built him a spacious palace, and a throne in the
midst thereof, all of which was of fine wood and was ornamented
with gold and silver and with precious things.

Mosiah 11:10
 10 And he also caused that his workmen should work all manner of
fine work within the walls of the temple, of fine wood, and of
copper, and of brass.

Mosiah 11:11
 11 And the seats which were set apart for the high priests,
which were above all the other seats, he did ornament with pure
gold; and he caused a breastwork to be built before them, that
they might rest their bodies and their arms upon while they
should speak lying and vain words to his people.

Mosiah 11:12
 12 And it came to pass that he built a tower near the temple;
yea, a very high tower, even so high that he could stand upon the
top thereof and overlook the land of Shilom, and also the land of
Shemlon, which was possessed by the Lamanites; and he could even
look over all the land round about.

Mosiah 11:13
 13 And it came to pass that he caused many buildings to be built
in the land Shilom; and he caused a great tower to be built on
the hill north of the land Shilom, which had been a resort for
the children of Nephi at the time they fled out of the land; and
thus he did do with the riches which he obtained by the taxation
of his people.

Mosiah 11:14
 14 And it came to pass that he placed his heart upon his riches,
and he spent his time in riotous living with his wives and his
concubines; and so did also his priests spend their time with
harlots.

Mosiah 11:15
 15 And it came to pass that he planted vineyards round about in
the land; and he built wine-presses, and made wine in abundance;
and therefore he became a wine-bibber, and also his people.

Mosiah 11:16
 16 And it came to pass that the Lamanites began to come in upon
his people, upon small numbers, and to slay them in their fields,
and while they were tending their flocks.

Mosiah 11:17
 17 And king Noah sent guards round about the land to keep them
off; but he did not send a sufficient number, and the Lamanites
came upon them and killed them, and drove many of their flocks
out of the land; thus the Lamanites began to destroy them, and to
exercise their hatred upon them.

Mosiah 11:18
 18 And it came to pass that king Noah sent his armies against
them, and they were driven back, or they drove them back for a
time; therefore, they returned rejoicing in their spoil.

Mosiah 11:19
 19 And now, because of this great victory they were lifted up in
the pride of their hearts; they did boast in their own strength,
saying that their fifty could stand against thousands of the
Lamanites; and thus they did boast, and did delight in blood, and
the shedding of the blood of their brethren, and this because of
the wickedness of their king and priests.

Mosiah 11:20
 20 And it came to pass that there was a man among them whose
name was Abinadi; and he went forth among them, and began to
prophesy, saying:





Mosiah 11:26
 26 Now it came to pass that when Abinadi had spoken these words
unto them they were wroth with him, and sought to take away his
life; but the Lord delivered him out of their hands.

Mosiah 11:27
 27 Now when king Noah had heard of the words which Abinadi had
spoken unto the people, he was also wroth; and he said:





Mosiah 11:29
 29 Now the eyes of the people were blinded; therefore they
hardened their hearts against the words of Abinadi, and they
sought from that time forward to take him.  And king Noah
hardened his heart against the word of the Lord, and he did not
repent of his evil doings.

Mosiah 12
Chapter 12

Mosiah 12:1
 1 And it came to pass that after the space of two years that
Abinadi came among them in disguise, that they knew him not, and
began to prophesy among them, saying:





And many things did Abinadi prophesy against this
people.

Mosiah 12:9
 9 And it came to pass that they were angry with him; and they
took him and carried him bound before the king, and said unto the
king:


.



Mosiah 12:17
 17 And it came to pass that king Noah caused that Abinadi should
be cast into prison; and he commanded that the priests should
gather themselves together that he might hold a council with them
what he should do with him.

Mosiah 12:18
 18 And it came to pass that they said unto the king: Bring him
hither that we may question him; and the king commanded that he
should be brought before them.

Mosiah 12:19
 19 And they began to question him, that they might cross him,
that thereby they might have wherewith to accuse him; but he
answered them boldly, and withstood all their questions, yea, to
their astonishment; for he did withstand them in all their
questions, and did confound them in all their words.

Mosiah 12:20
 20 And it came to pass that one of them said unto him:






Mosiah 13
Chapter 13

Mosiah 13:1
 1 And now when the king had heard these words, he said unto his
priests: 





Mosiah 13:2
 2 And they stood forth and attempted to lay their hands on him;
but he withstood them, and said unto them:




Mosiah 13:5
 5 Now it came to pass after Abinadi had spoken these words that
the people of king Noah durst not lay their hands on him, for the
Spirit of the Lord was upon him; and his face shone with
exceeding luster, even as Moses' did while in the mount of Sinai,
while speaking with the Lord.

Mosiah 13:6
 6 And he spake with power and authority from God; and he
continued his words, saying:






Mosiah 17
Chapter 17

Mosiah 17:1
 1 And now it came to pass that when Abinadi had finished these
sayings, that the king commanded that the priests should take him
and cause that he should be put to death.

Mosiah 17:2
 2 But there was one among them whose name was Alma, he also
being a descendant of Nephi.  And he was a young man, and he
believed the words which Abinadi had spoken, for he knew
concerning the iniquity which Abinadi has testified against them;
therefore he began to plead with the king that he would not be
angry with Abinadi, but suffer that he might depart in peace.

Mosiah 17:3
 3 But the king was more wroth, and caused that Alma should be
cast out from among them, and sent his servants after him that
they might slay him.

Mosiah 17:4
 4 But he fled from before them and hid himself that they found
him not.  And he being concealed for many days did write all the
words which Abinadi had spoken.

Mosiah 17:5
 5 And it came to pass that the king caused that his guards
should surround Abinadi and take him; and they bound him and cast
him into prison.

Mosiah 17:6
 6 And after three days, having counseled with his priests, he
caused that he should again be brought before him.

Mosiah 17:7
 7 And he said unto him: 




Mosiah 17:11
 11 And now king Noah was about to release him, for he feared his
word; for he feared that the judgments of God would come upon
him.

Mosiah 17:12
 12 But the priests lifted up their voices against him, and began
to accuse him, saying: He has reviled the king.  Therefore the
king was stirred up in anger against him, and he delivered him up
that he might be slain.

Mosiah 17:13
 13 And it came to pass that they took him and bound him, and
scourged his skin with faggots, yea, even unto death.

Mosiah 17:14
 14 And now when the flames began to scorch him, he cried unto
them, saying:






Mosiah 17:20
 20 And now, when Abinadi had said these words, he fell, having
suffered death by fire; yea, having been put to death because he
would not deny the commandments of God, having sealed the truth
of his words by his death.

Mosiah 18
Chapter 18

Mosiah 18:1
 1 And now, it came to pass that Alma, who had fled from the
servants of king Noah, repented of his sins and iniquities, and
went about privately among the people, and began to teach the
words of Abinadi--

Mosiah 18:2
 2 Yea, concerning that which was to come, and also concerning
the resurrection of the dead, and the redemption of the people,
which was to be brought to pass through the power, and
sufferings, and death of Christ, and his resurrection and
ascension into heaven.

Mosiah 18:3
 3 And as many as would hear his word he did teach.  And he
taught them privately, that it might not come to the knowledge of
the king.  And many did believe his words.

Mosiah 18:4
 4 And it came to pass that as many as did believe him did go
forth to a place which was called Mormon, having received its
name from the king, being in the borders of the land having been
infested, by times or at seasons, by wild beasts.

Mosiah 18:5
 5 Now, there was in Mormon a fountain of pure water, and Alma
resorted thither, there being near the water a thicket of small
trees, where he did hide himself in the daytime from the searches
of the king.

Mosiah 18:6
 6 And it came to pass that as many as believed him went thither
to hear his words.

Mosiah 18:7
 7 And it came to pass after many days there were a goodly number
gathered together at the place of Mormon, to hear the words of
Alma.  Yea, all were gathered together that believed on his word,
to hear him.  And he did teach them, and did preach unto them
repentance, and redemption, and faith on the Lord.

Mosiah 18:8
 8 And it came to pass that he said unto them:




 
Mosiah 18:11
 11 And now when the people had heard these words, they clapped
their hands for joy, and exclaimed: This is the desire of our
hearts.

Mosiah 18:12
 12 And now it came to pass that Alma took Helam, he being one of
the first, and went and stood forth in the water, and cried,
saying:



Mosiah 18:14
 14 And after Alma had said these words, both Alma and Helam were
buried in the water; and they arose and came forth out of the
water rejoicing, being filled with the Spirit.

Mosiah 18:15
 15 And again, Alma took another, and went forth a second time
into the water, and baptized him according to the first, only he
did not bury himself again in the water.

Mosiah 18:16
 16 And after this manner he did baptize every one that went
forth to the place of Mormon; and they were in number about two
hundred and four souls; yea, and they were baptized in the waters
of Mormon, and were filled with the grace of God.

Mosiah 18:17
 17 And they were called the church of God, or the church of
Christ, from that time forward.  And it came to pass that
whosoever was baptized by the power and authority of God was
added to his church.

Mosiah 18:18
 18 And it came to pass that Alma, having authority from God,
ordained priests; even one priest to every fifty of their number
did he ordain to preach unto them, and to teach them concerning
the things pertaining to the kingdom of God.

Mosiah 18:19
 19 And he commanded them that they should teach nothing save it
were the things which he had taught, and which had been spoken by
the mouth of the holy prophets.

Mosiah 18:20
 20 Yea, even he commanded them that they should preach nothing
save it were repentance and faith on the Lord, who had redeemed
his people.

Mosiah 18:21
 21 And he commanded them that there should be no contention one
with another, but that they should look forward with one eye,
having one faith and one baptism, having their hearts knit
together in unity and in love one towards another.

Mosiah 18:22
 22 And thus he commanded them to preach.  And thus they became
the children of God.

Mosiah 18:23
 23 And he commanded them that they should observe the sabbath
day, and keep it holy, and also every day they should give thanks
to the Lord their God.

Mosiah 18:24
 24 And he also commanded them that the priests whom he had
ordained should labor with their own hands for their support.

Mosiah 18:25
 25 And there was one day in every week that was set apart that
they should gather themselves together to teach the people, and
to worship the Lord their God, and also, as often as it was in
their power, to assemble themselves together.

Mosiah 18:26
 26 And the priests were not to depend upon the people for their
support; but for their labor they were to receive the grace of
God, that they might wax strong in the Spirit, having the
knowledge of God, that they might teach with power and authority
from God.

Mosiah 18:27
 27 And again Alma commanded that the people of the church should
impart of their substance, every one according to that which he
had; if he have more abundantly he should impart more abundantly;
and of him that had but little, but little should be required;
and to him that had not should be given.

Mosiah 18:28
 28 And thus they should impart of their substance of their own
free will and good desires towards God, and to those priests that
stood in need, yea, and to every needy, naked soul.

Mosiah 18:29
 29 And this he said unto them, having been commanded of God; and
they did walk uprightly before God, imparting to one another both
temporally and spiritually according to their needs and their
wants.

Mosiah 18:30
 30 And now it came to pass that all this was done in Mormon,
yea, by the waters of Mormon, in the forest that was near the
waters of Mormon; yea, the place of Mormon, the waters of Mormon,
the forest of Mormon, how beautiful are they to the eyes of them
who there came to the knowledge of their Redeemer; yea, and how
blessed are they, for they shall sing to his praise forever.

Mosiah 18:31
 31 And these things were done in the borders of the land, that
they might not come to the knowledge of the king.

Mosiah 18:32
 32 But behold, it came to pass that the king, having discovered
a movement among the people, sent his servants to watch them. 
Therefore on the day that they were assembling themselves
together to hear the word of the Lord they were discovered unto
the king.

Mosiah 18:33
 33 And now the king said that Alma was stirring up the people to
rebellion against him; therefore he sent his army to destroy
them.

Mosiah 18:34
 34 And it came to pass that Alma and the people of the Lord were
apprised of the coming of the king's army; therefore they took
their tents and their families and departed into the wilderness.

Mosiah 18:35
 35 And they were in number about four hundred and fifty souls.



Mosiah 19
Chapter 19

Mosiah 19:1
 1 And it came to pass that the army of the king returned, having
searched in vain for the people of the Lord.

Mosiah 19:2
 2 And now behold, the forces of the king were small, having been
reduced, and there began to be a division among the remainder of
the people.

Mosiah 19:3
 3 And the lesser part began to breathe out threatenings against
the king, and there began to be a great contention among them.

Mosiah 19:4
 4 And now there was a man among them whose name was Gideon, and
he being a strong man and an enemy to the king, therefore he drew
his sword, and swore in his wrath that he would slay the king.

Mosiah 19:5
 5 And it came to pass that he fought with the king; and when the
king saw that he was about to overpower him, he fled and ran and
got upon the tower which was near the temple.

Mosiah 19:6
 6 And Gideon pursued after him and was about to get upon the
tower to slay the king, and the king cast his eyes round about
towards the land of Shemlon, and behold, the army of the
Lamanites were within the borders of the land.

Mosiah 19:7
 7 And now the king cried out in the anguish of his soul, saying:





Mosiah 19:8
 8 And now the king was not so much concerned about his people as
he was about his own life; nevertheless, Gideon did spare his
life.

Mosiah 19:9
 9 And the king commanded the people that they should flee before
the Lamanites, and he himself did go before them, and they did
flee into the wilderness, with their women and their children.

Mosiah 19:10
 10 And it came to pass that the Lamanites did pursue them, and
did overtake them, and began to slay them.

Mosiah 19:11
 11 Now it came to pass that the king commanded them that all the
men should leave their wives and their children, and flee before
the Lamanites.

Mosiah 19:12
 12 Now there were many that would not leave them, but had rather
stay and perish with them.  And the rest left their wives and
their children and fled.

Mosiah 19:13
 13 And it came to pass that those who tarried with their wives
and their children caused that their fair daughters should stand
forth and plead with the Lamanites that they would not slay them.

Mosiah 19:14
 14 And it came to pass that the Lamanites had compassion on
them, for they were charmed with the beauty of their women.

Mosiah 19:15
 15 Therefore the Lamanites did spare their lives, and took them
captives and carried them back to the land of Nephi, and granted
unto them that they might possess the land, under the conditions
that they would deliver up king Noah into the hands of the
Lamanites, and deliver up their property, even one half of all
they possessed, one half of their gold, and their silver, and all
their precious things, and thus they should pay tribute to the
king of the Lamanites from year to year.

Mosiah 19:16
 16 And now there was one of the sons of the king among those
that were taken captive, whose name was Limhi.

Mosiah 19:17
 17 And now Limhi was desirous that his father should not be
destroyed; nevertheless, Limhi was not ignorant of the iniquities
of his father, he himself being a just man.

Mosiah 19:18
 18 And it came to pass that Gideon sent men into the wilderness
secretly, to search for the king and those that were with him. 
And it came to pass that they met the people in the wilderness,
all save the king and his priests.

Mosiah 19:19
 19 Now they had sworn in their hearts that they would return to
the land of Nephi, and if their wives and their children were
slain, and also those that had tarried with them, that they would
seek revenge, and also perish with them.

Mosiah 19:20
 20 And the king commanded them that they should not return; and
they were angry with the king, and caused that he should suffer,
even unto death by fire.

Mosiah 19:21
 21 And they were about to take the priests also and put them to
death, and they fled before them.

Mosiah 19:22
 22 And it came to pass that they were about to return to the
land of Nephi, and they met the men of Gideon.  And the men of
Gideon told them of all that had happened to their wives and
their children; and that the Lamanites had granted unto them that
they might possess the land by paying a tribute to the Lamanites
of one half of all they possessed.

Mosiah 19:23
 23 And the people told the men of Gideon that they had slain the
king, and his priests had fled from them farther into the
wilderness.

Mosiah 19:24
 24 And it came to pass that after they had ended the ceremony,
that they returned to the land of Nephi, rejoicing, because their
wives and their children were not slain; and they told Gideon
what they had done to the king.

Mosiah 19:25
 25 And it came to pass that the king of the Lamanites made an
oath unto them, that his people should not slay them.

Mosiah 19:26
 26 And also Limhi, being the son of the king, having the kingdom
conferred upon him by the people, made oath unto the king of the
Lamanites that his people should pay tribute unto him, even one
half of all they possessed.

Mosiah 19:27
 27 And it came to pass that Limhi began to establish the kingdom
and to establish peace among his people.

Mosiah 19:28
 28 And the king of the Lamanites set guards round about the
land, that he might keep the people of Limhi in the land, that
they might not depart into the wilderness; and he did support his
guards out of the tribute which he did receive from the Nephites.

Mosiah 19:29
 29 And now king Limhi did have continual peace in his kingdom
for the space of two years, that the Lamanites did not molest
them nor seek to destroy them.

Mosiah 20
Chapter 20

Mosiah 20:1
 1 Now there was a place in Shemlon where the daughters of the
Lamanites did gather themselves together to sing, and to dance,
and to make themselves merry.

Mosiah 20:2
 2 And it came to pass that there was one day a small number of
them gathered together to sing and to dance.

Mosiah 20:3
 3 And now the priests of king Noah, being ashamed to return to
the city of Nephi, yea, and also fearing that the people would
slay them, therefore they durst not return to their wives and
their children.

Mosiah 20:4
 4 And having tarried in the wilderness, and having discovered
the daughters of the Lamanites, they laid and watched them;

Mosiah 20:5
 5 And when there were but few of them gathered together to
dance, they came forth out of their secret places and took them
and carried them into the wilderness; yea, twenty and four of the
daughters of the Lamanites they carried into the wilderness.

Mosiah 20:6
 6 And it came to pass that when the Lamanites found that their
daughters had been missing, they were angry with the people of
Limhi, for they thought it was the people of Limhi.

Mosiah 20:7
 7 Therefore they sent their armies forth; yea, even the king
himself went before his people; and they went up to the land of
Nephi to destroy the people of Limhi.

Mosiah 20:8
 8 And now Limhi had discovered them from the tower, even all
their preparations for war did he discover; therefore he gathered
his people together, and laid wait for them in the fields and in
the forests.

Mosiah 20:9
 9 And it came to pass that when the Lamanites had come up, that
the people of Limhi began to fall upon them from their waiting
places, and began to slay them.

Mosiah 20:10
 10 And it came to pass that the battle became exceedingly sore,
for they fought like lions for their prey.

Mosiah 20:11
 11 And it came to pass that the people of Limhi began to drive
the Lamanites before them; yet they were not half so numerous as
the Lamanites.  But they fought for their lives, and for their
wives, and for their children; therefore they exerted themselves
and like dragons did they fight.

Mosiah 20:12
 12 And it came to pass that they found the king of the Lamanites
among the number of their dead; yet he was not dead, having been
wounded and left upon the ground, so speedy was the flight of his
people.

Mosiah 20:13
 13 And they took him and bound up his wounds, and brought him
before Limhi, and said: Behold, here is the king of the
Lamanites; he having received a wound has fallen among their
dead, and they have left him; and behold, we have brought him
before you; and now let us slay him.

Mosiah 20:14
 14 But Limhi said unto them:






Mosiah 20:15
 15 And now the king said: I have broken the oath because thy
people did carry away the daughters of my people; therefore, in
my anger I did cause my people to come up to war against thy
people.

Mosiah 20:16
 16 And now Limhi had heard nothing concerning this matter;
therefore he said: I will search among my people and whosoever
has done this thing shall perish.  Therefore he caused a search
to be made among his people.

Mosiah 20:17
 17 Now when Gideon had heard these things, he being the king's
captain, he went forth and said unto the king: I pray thee
forbear, and do not search this people, and lay not this thing to
their charge.

Mosiah 20:18
 18 For do ye not remember the priests of thy father, whom this
people sought to destroy?  And are they not in the wilderness? 
And are not they the ones who have stolen the daughters of the
Lamanites?

Mosiah 20:19
 19 And now, behold, and tell the king of these things, that he
may tell his people that they may be pacified towards us; for
behold they are already preparing to come against us; and behold
also there are but few of us.

Mosiah 20:20
 20 And behold, they come with their numerous hosts; and except
the king doth pacify them towards us we must perish.

Mosiah 20:21
 21 For are not the words of Abinadi fulfilled, which he
prophesied against us--and all this because we would not hearken
unto the words of the Lord, and turn from our iniquities?

Mosiah 20:22
 22 And now let us pacify the king, and we fulfil the oath which
we have made unto him; for it is better that we should be in
bondage than that we should lose our lives; therefore, let us put
a stop to the shedding of so much blood.

Mosiah 20:23
 23 And now Limhi told the king all the things concerning his
father, and the priests that had fled into the wilderness, and
attributed the carrying away of their daughters to them.

Mosiah 20:24
 24 And it came to pass that the king was pacified towards his
people; and he said unto them: Let us go forth to meet my people,
without arms; and I swear unto you with an oath that my people
shall not slay thy people.

Mosiah 20:25
 25 And it came to pass that they followed the king, and went
forth without arms to meet the Lamanites.  And it came to pass
that they did meet the Lamanites; and the king of the Lamanites
did bow himself down before them, and did plead in behalf of the
people of Limhi.

Mosiah 20:26
 26 And when the Lamanites saw the people of Limhi, that they
were without arms, they had compassion on them and were pacified
towards them, and returned with their king in peace to their own
land.

Mosiah 21
Chapter 21

Mosiah 21:1
 1 And it came to pass that Limhi and his people returned to the
city of Nephi, and began to dwell in the land again in peace.

Mosiah 21:2
 2 And it came to pass that after many days the Lamanites began
again to be stirred up in anger against the Nephites, and they
began to come into the borders of the land round about.

Mosiah 21:3
 3 Now they durst not slay them, because of the oath which their
king had made unto Limhi; but they would smite them on their
cheeks, and exercise authority over them; and began to put heavy
burdens upon their backs, and drive them as they would a dumb
ass--

Mosiah 21:4
 4 Yea, all this was done that the word of the Lord might be
fulfilled.

Mosiah 21:5
 5 And now the afflictions of the Nephites were great, and there
was no way that they could deliver themselves out of their hands,
for the Lamanites had surrounded them on every side.

Mosiah 21:6
 6 And it came to pass that the people began to murmur with the
king because of their afflictions; and they began to be desirous
to go against them to battle.  And they did afflict the king
sorely with their complaints; therefore he granted unto them that
they should do according to their desires.

Mosiah 21:7
 7 And they gathered themselves together again, and put on their
armor, and went forth against the Lamanites to drive them out of
their land.

Mosiah 21:8
 8 And it came to pass that the Lamanites did beat them, and
drove them back, and slew many of them.

Mosiah 21:9
 9 And now there was a great mourning and lamentation among the
people of Limhi, the widow mourning for her husband, the son and
the daughter mourning for their father, and the brothers for
their brethren.

Mosiah 21:10
 10 Now there were a great many widows in the land, and they did
cry mightily from day to day, for a great fear of the Lamanites
had come upon them.

Mosiah 21:11
 11 And it came to pass that their continual cries did stir up
the remainder of the people of Limhi to anger against the
Lamanites; and they went again to battle, but they were driven
back again, suffering much loss.

Mosiah 21:12
 12 Yea, they went again even the third time, and suffered in the
like manner; and those that were not slain returned again to the
city of Nephi.

Mosiah 21:13
 13 And they did humble themselves even to the dust, subjecting
themselves to the yoke of bondage, submitting themselves to be
smitten, and to be driven to and fro, and burdened, according to
the desires of their enemies.

Mosiah 21:14
 14 And they did humble themselves even in the depths of
humility; and they did cry mightily to God; yea, even all the day
long did they cry unto their God that he would deliver them out
of their afflictions.

Mosiah 21:15
 15 And now the Lord was slow to hear their cry because of their
iniquities; nevertheless the Lord did hear their cries, and began
to soften the hearts of the Lamanites that they began to ease
their burdens; yet the Lord did not see fit to deliver them out
of bondage.

Mosiah 21:16
 16 And it came to pass that they began to prosper by degrees in
the land, and began to raise grain more abundantly, and flocks,
and herds, that they did not suffer with hunger.

Mosiah 21:17
 17 Now there was a great number of women, more than there was of
men; therefore king Limhi commanded that every man should impart
to the support of the widows and their children, that they might
not perish with hunger; and this they did because of the
greatness of their number that had been slain.

Mosiah 21:18
 18 Now the people of Limhi kept together in a body as much as it
was possible, and secured their grain and their flocks;

Mosiah 21:19
 19 And the king himself did not trust his person without the
walls of the city, unless he took his guards with him, fearing
that he might by some means fall into the hands of the Lamanites.

Mosiah 21:20
 20 And he caused that his people should watch the land round
about, that by some means they might take those priests that fled
into the wilderness, who had stolen the daughters of the
Lamanites, and that had caused such a great destruction to come
upon them.

Mosiah 21:21
 21 For they were desirous to take them that they might punish
them; for they had come into the land of Nephi by night, and
carried off their grain and many of their precious things;
therefore they laid wait for them.

Mosiah 21:22
 22 And it came to pass that there was no more disturbance
between the Lamanites and the people of Limhi, even until the
time that Ammon and his brethren came into the land.

Mosiah 21:23
 23 And the king having been without the gates of the city with
his guard, discovered Ammon and his brethren; and supposing them
to be priests of Noah therefore he caused that they should be
taken, and bound, and cast into prison.  And had they been the
priests of Noah he would have caused that they should be put to
death.

Mosiah 21:24
 24 But when he found that they were not, but that they were his
brethren, and had come from the land of Zarahemla, he was filled
with exceedingly great joy.

Mosiah 21:25
 25 Now king Limhi had sent, previous to the coming of Ammon, a
small number of men to search for the land of Zarahemla; but they
could not find it, and they were lost in the wilderness.

Mosiah 21:26
 26 Nevertheless, they did find a land which had been peopled;
yea, a land which was covered with dry bones; yea, a land which
had been peopled and which had been destroyed; and they, having
supposed it to be the land of Zarahemla, returned to the land of
Nephi, having arrived in the borders of the land not many days
before the coming of Ammon.

Mosiah 21:27
 27 And they brought a record with them, even a record of the
people whose bones they had found; and it was engraven on plates
of ore.

Mosiah 21:28
 28 And now Limhi was again filled with joy in learning from the
mouth of Ammon that king Mosiah had a gift from God, whereby he
could interpret such engravings; yea, and Ammon also did rejoice.

Mosiah 21:29
 29 Yet Ammon and his brethren were filled with sorrow because so
many of their brethren had been slain;

Mosiah 21:30
 30 And also that king Noah and his priests had caused the people
to commit so many sins and iniquities against God; and they also
did mourn for the death of Abinadi; and also for the departure of
Alma and the people that went with him, who had formed a church
of God through the strength and power of God, and faith on the
words which had been spoken by Abinadi.

Mosiah 21:31
 31 Yea, they did mourn for their departure, for they knew not
whither they had fled.  Now they would have gladly joined with
them, for they themselves had entered into a covenant with God to
serve him and keep his commandments.

Mosiah 21:32
 32 And now since the coming of Ammon, king Limhi had also
entered into a covenant with God, and also many of his people, to
serve him and keep his commandments.

Mosiah 21:33
 33 And it came to pass that king Limhi and many of his people
were desirous to be baptized; but there was none in the land that
had authority from God.  And Ammon declined doing this thing,
considering himself an unworthy servant.

Mosiah 21:34
 34 Therefore they did not at that time form themselves into a
church, waiting upon the Spirit of the Lord.  Now they were
desirous to become even as Alma and his brethren, who had fled
into the wilderness.

Mosiah 21:35
 35 They were desirous to be baptized as a witness and a
testimony that they were willing to serve God with all their
hearts; nevertheless they did prolong the time; and an account of
their baptism shall be given hereafter.

Mosiah 21:36
 36 And now all the study of Ammon and his people, and king Limhi
and his people, was to deliver themselves out of the hands of the
Lamanites and from bondage.

Mosiah 22
Chapter 22

Mosiah 22:1
 1 And now it came to pass that Ammon and king Limhi began to
consult with the people how they should deliver themselves out of
bondage; and even they did cause that all the people should
gather themselves together; and this they did that they might
have the voice of the people concerning the matter.

Mosiah 22:2
 2 And it came to pass that they could find no way to deliver
themselves out of bondage, except it were to take their women and
children, and their flocks, and their herds, and their tents, and
depart into the wilderness; for the Lamanites being so numerous,
it was impossible for the people of Limhi to contend with them,
thinking to deliver themselves out of bondage by the sword.

Mosiah 22:3
 3 Now it came to pass that Gideon went forth and stood before
the king, and said unto him: 




Mosiah 22:9
 9 And it came to pass that the king hearkened unto the words of
Gideon.

Mosiah 22:10
 10 And king Limhi caused that his people should gather their
flocks together; and he sent the tribute of wine to the
Lamanites; and he also sent more wine, as a present unto them;
and they did drink freely of the wine which king Limhi did send
unto them.

Mosiah 22:11
 11 And it came to pass that the people of king Limhi did depart
by night into the wilderness with their flocks and their herds,
and they went round about the land of Shilom in the wilderness,
and bent their course towards the land of Zarahemla, being led by
Ammon and his brethren.

Mosiah 22:12
 12 And they had taken all their gold, and silver, and their
precious things, which they could carry, and also their
provisions with them, into the wilderness; and they pursued their
journey.

Mosiah 22:13
 13 And after being many days in the wilderness they arrived in
the land of Zarahemla, and joined Mosiah's people, and became his
subjects.

Mosiah 22:14
 14 And it came to pass that Mosiah received them with joy; and
he also received their records, and also the records which had
been found by the people of Limhi.

Mosiah 22:15
 15 And now it came to pass when the Lamanites had found that the
people of Limhi had departed out of the land by night, that they
sent an army into the wilderness to pursue them;

Mosiah 22:16
 16 And after they had pursued them two days, they could no
longer follow their tracks; therefore they were lost in the
wilderness.

Mosiah 23
Chapter 23

Mosiah 23:1
 1 Now Alma, having been warned of the Lord that the armies of
king Noah would come upon them, and having made it known to his
people, therefore they gathered together their flocks, and took
of their grain, and departed into the wilderness before the
armies of king Noah.

Mosiah 23:2
 2 And the Lord did strengthen them, that the people of king Noah
could not overtake them to destroy them.

Mosiah 23:3
 3 And they fled eight days' journey into the wilderness.

Mosiah 23:4
 4 And they came to a land, yea, even a very beautiful and
pleasant land, a land of pure water.

Mosiah 23:5
 5 And they pitched their tents, and began to till the ground,
and began to build buildings; yea, they were industrious, and did
labor exceedingly.

Mosiah 23:6
 6 And the people were desirous that Alma should be their king,
for he was beloved by his people.

Mosiah 23:7
 7 But he said unto them:





Mosiah 23:16
 16 And now, Alma was their high priest, he being the founder of
their church.

Mosiah 23:17
 17 And it came to pass that none received authority to preach or
to teach except it were by him from God.  Therefore he
consecrated all their priests and all their teachers; and none
were consecrated except they were just men.

Mosiah 23:18
 18 Therefore they did watch over their people, and did nourish
them with things pertaining to righteousness.

Mosiah 23:19
 19 And it came to pass that they began to prosper exceedingly in
the land; and they called the land Helam.

Mosiah 23:20
 20 And it came to pass that they did multiply and prosper
exceedingly in the land of Helam; and they built a city, which
they called the city of Helam.

Mosiah 23:21
 21 Nevertheless the Lord seeth fit to chasten his people; yea,
he trieth their patience and their faith.

Mosiah 23:22
 22 Nevertheless--whosoever putteth his trust in him the same
shall be lifted up at the last day.  Yea, and thus it was with
this people.

Mosiah 23:23
 23 For behold, I will show unto you that they were brought into
bondage, and none could deliver them but the Lord their God, yea,
even the God of Abraham and Isaac and of Jacob.

Mosiah 23:24
 24 And it came to pass that he did deliver them, and he did show
forth his mighty power unto them, and great were their
rejoicings.

Mosiah 23:25
 25 For behold, it came to pass that while they were in the land
of Helam, yea, in the city of Helam, while tilling the land round
about, behold an army of the Lamanites was in the borders of the
land.

Mosiah 23:26
 26 Now it came to pass that the brethren of Alma fled from their
fields, and gathered themselves together in the city of Helam;
and they were much frightened because of the appearance of the
Lamanites.

Mosiah 23:27
 27 But Alma went forth and stood among them, and exhorted them
that they should not be frightened, but that they should remember
the Lord their God and he would deliver them.

Mosiah 23:28
 28 Therefore they hushed their fears, and began to cry unto the
Lord that he would soften the hearts of the Lamanites, that they
would spare them, and their wives, and their children.

Mosiah 23:29
 29 And it came to pass the the Lord did soften the hearts of the
Lamanites.  And Alma and his brethren went forth and delivered
themselves up into their hands; and the Lamanites took possession
of the land of Helam.

Mosiah 23:30
 30 Now the armies of the Lamanites, which had followed after the
people of king Limhi, had been lost in the wilderness for many
days.

Mosiah 23:31
 31 And behold, they had found those priests of king Noah, in a
place which they called Amulon; and they had begun to possess the
land of Amulon and had begun to till the ground.

Mosiah 23:32
 32 Now the name of the leader of those priests was Amulon.

Mosiah 23:33
 33 And it came to pass that Amulon did plead with the Lamanites;
and he also sent forth their wives, who were the daughters of the
Lamanites, to plead with their brethren, that they should not
destroy their husbands.

Mosiah 23:34
 34 And the Lamanites had compassion on Amulon and his brethren,
and did not destroy them, because of their wives.

Mosiah 23:35
 35 And Amulon and his brethren did join the Lamanites, and they
were traveling in the wilderness in search of the land of Nephi
when they discovered the land of Helam, which was possessed by
Alma and his brethren.

Mosiah 23:36
 36 And it came to pass that the Lamanites promised unto Alma and
his brethren, that if they would show them the way which led to
the land of Nephi that they would grant unto them their lives and
their liberty.

Mosiah 23:37
 37 But after Alma had shown them the way that led to the land of
Nephi the Lamanites would not keep their promise; but they set
guards round about the land of Helam, over Alma and his brethren.

Mosiah 23:38
 38 And the remainder of them went to the land of Nephi; and a
part of them returned to the land of Helam, and also brought with
them the wives and the children of the guards who had been left
in the land.

Mosiah 23:39
 39 And the king of the Lamanites had granted unto Amulon that he
should be a king and a ruler over his people, who were in the
land of Helam; nevertheless he should have no power to do
anything contrary to the will of the king of the Lamanites.

Mosiah 24
Chapter 24

Mosiah 24:1
 1 And it came to pass that Amulon did gain favor in the eyes of
the king of the Lamanites; therefore, the king of the Lamanites
granted unto him and his brethren that they should be appointed
teachers over his people, yea, even over the people who were in
the land of Shemlon, and in the land of Shilom, and in the land
of Amulon.

Mosiah 24:2
 2 For the Lamanites had taken possession of all these lands;
therefore, the king of the Lamanites had appointed kings over all
these lands.

Mosiah 24:3
 3 And now the name of the king of the Lamanites was Laman, being
called after the name of his father; and therefore he was called
king Laman.  And he was king over a numerous people.

Mosiah 24:4
 4 And he appointed teachers of the brethren of Amulon in every
land which was possessed by his people; and thus the language of
Nephi began to be taught among all the people of the Lamanites.

Mosiah 24:5
 5 And they were a people friendly one with another; nevertheless
they knew not God; neither did the brethren of Amulon teach them
anything concerning the Lord their God, neither the law of Moses;
nor did they teach them the words of Abinadi;

Mosiah 24:6
 6 But they taught them that they should keep their record, and
that they might write one to another.

Mosiah 24:7
 7 And thus the Lamanites began to increase in riches, and began
to trade one with another and wax great, and began to be a
cunning and a wise people, as to the wisdom of the world, yea, a
very cunning people, delighting in all manner of wickedness and
plunder, except it were among their own brethren.

Mosiah 24:8
 8 And now it came to pass that Amulon began to exercise
authority over Alma and his brethren, and began to persecute him,
and cause that his children should persecute their children.

Mosiah 24:9
 9 For Amulon knew Alma, that he had been one of the king's
priests, and that it was he that believed the words of Abinadi
and was driven out before the king, and therefore he was wroth
with him; for he was subject to king Laman, yet he exercised
authority over them, and put tasks upon them, and put
task-masters over them.

Mosiah 24:10
 10 And it came to pass that so great were their afflictions that
they began to cry mightily to God.

Mosiah 24:11
 11 And Amulon commanded them that they should stop their cries;
and he put guards over them to watch them, that whosoever should
be found calling upon God should be put to death.

Mosiah 24:12
 12 And Alma and his people did not raise their voices to the
Lord their God, but did pour out their hearts to him; and he did
know the thoughts of their hearts.

Mosiah 24:13
 13 And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord came to them
in their afflictions, saying:




Mosiah 24:15
 15 And now it came to pass that the burdens which were laid upon
Alma and his brethren were made light; yea, the Lord did
strengthen them that they could bear up their burdens with ease,
and they did submit cheerfully and with patience to all the will
of the Lord.

Mosiah 24:16
 16 And it came to pass that so great was their faith and their
patience that the voice of the Lord came unto them again, saying:






Mosiah 24:18
 18 Now it came to pass that Alma and his people in the
night-time gathered their flocks together, and also of their
grain; yea, even all the night-time were they gathering the
flocks together.

Mosiah 24:19
 19 And in the morning the Lord caused a deep sleep to come upon
the Lamanites, yea, and all their task-masters were in a profound
sleep.

Mosiah 24:20
 20 And Alma and his people departed into the wilderness; and
when they had traveled all day they pitched their tents in a
valley, and they called the valley Alma, because he led their way
in the wilderness.

Mosiah 24:21
 21 Yea, and in the valley of Alma they poured out their thanks
to God because he had been merciful unto them, and eased their
burdens, and had delivered them out of bondage; for they were in
bondage, and none could deliver them except it were the Lord
their God.

Mosiah 24:22
 22 And they gave thanks to God, yea, all their men and all their
women and all their children that could speak lifted their voices
in the praises of their God.

Mosiah 24:23
 23 And now the Lord said unto Alma: 





Mosiah 24:24
 24 And it came to pass that they departed out of the valley, and
took their journey into the wilderness.

Mosiah 24:25
 25 And after they had been in the wilderness twelve days they
arrived in the land of Zarahemla; and king Mosiah did also
receive them with joy.

Mosiah 25
Chapter 25

Mosiah 25:1
 1 And now king Mosiah caused that all the people should be
gathered together.

Mosiah 25:2
 2 Now there were not so many of the children of Nephi, or so
many of those who were descendants of Nephi, as there were of the
people of Zarahemla, who was a descendant of Mulek, and those who
came with him into the wilderness.

Mosiah 25:3
 3 And there were not so many of the people of Nephi and of the
people of Zarahemla as there were of the Lamanites; yea, they
were not half so numerous.

Mosiah 25:4
 4 And now all the people of Nephi were assembled together, and
also all the people of Zarahemla, and they were gathered together
in two bodies.

Mosiah 25:5
 5 And it came to pass that Mosiah did read, and caused to be
read, the records of Zeniff to his people; yea, he read the
records of the people of Zeniff, from the time they left the land
of Zarahemla until they returned again.

Mosiah 25:6
 6 And he also read the account of Alma and his brethren, and all
their afflictions, from the time they left the land of Zarahemla
until the time they returned again.

Mosiah 25:7
 7 And now, when Mosiah had made an end of reading the records,
his people who tarried in the land were struck with wonder and
amazement.

Mosiah 25:8
 8 For they knew not what to think; for when they beheld those
that had been delivered out of bondage they were filled with
exceedingly great joy.

Mosiah 25:9
 9 And again, when they thought of their brethren who had been
slain by the Lamanites they were filled with sorrow, and even
shed many tears of sorrow.

Mosiah 25:10
 10 And again, when they thought of the immediate goodness of
God, and his power in delivering Alma and his brethren out of the
hands of the Lamanites and of bondage, they did raise their
voices and give thanks to God.

Mosiah 25:11
 11 And again, when they thought upon the Lamanites, who were
their brethren, of their sinful and polluted state, they were
filled with pain and anguish for the welfare of their souls.

Mosiah 25:12
 12 And it came to pass that those who were the children of
Amulon and his brethren, who had taken to wife the daughters of
the Lamanites, were displeased with the conduct of their fathers,
and they would no longer be called by the names of their fathers,
therefore they took upon themselves the name of Nephi, that they
might be called the children of Nephi and be numbered among those
who were called Nephites.

Mosiah 25:13
 13 And now all the people of Zarahemla were numbered with the
Nephites, and this because the kingdom had been conferred upon
none but those who were descendants of Nephi.

Mosiah 25:14
 14 And now it came to pass that when Mosiah had made an end of
speaking and reading to the people, he desired that Alma should
also speak to the people.

Mosiah 25:15
 15 And Alma did speak unto them, when they were assembled
together in large bodies, and he went from one body to another,
preaching unto the people repentance and faith on the Lord.

Mosiah 25:16
 16 And he did exhort the people of Limhi and his brethren, all
those that had been delivered out of bondage, that they should
remember that it was the Lord that did deliver them.

Mosiah 25:17
 17 And it came to pass that after Alma had taught the people
many things, and had made an end of speaking to them, that king
Limhi was desirous that he might be baptized; and all his people
were desirous that they might be baptized also.

Mosiah 25:18
 18 Therefore, Alma did go forth into the water and did baptize
them; yea, he did baptize them after the manner he did his
brethren in the waters of Mormon; yea, and as many as he did
baptize did belong to the church of God; and this because of
their belief on the words of Alma.

Mosiah 25:19
 19 And it came to pass that king Mosiah granted unto Alma that
he might establish churches throughout all the land of Zarahemla;
and gave him power to ordain priests and teachers over every
church.

Mosiah 25:20
 20 Now this was done because there were so many people that they
could not all be governed by one teacher; neither could they all
hear the word of God in one assembly;

Mosiah 25:21
 21 Therefore they did assemble themselves together in different
bodies, being called churches; every church having their priests
and their teachers, and every priest preaching the word according
as it was delivered to him by the mouth of Alma.

Mosiah 25:22
 22 And thus, notwithstanding there being many churches they were
all one church, yea, even the church of God; for there was
nothing preached in all the churches except it were repentance
and faith in God.

Mosiah 25:23
 23 And now there were seven churches in the land of Zarahemla. 
And it came to pass that whosoever were desirous to take upon
them the name of Christ, or of God, they did join the churches of
God;

Mosiah 25:24
 24 And they were called the people of God.  And the Lord did
pour out his Spirit upon them, and they were blessed, and
prospered in the land.

Mosiah 26
Chapter 26

Mosiah 26:1
 1 Now it came to pass that there were many of the rising
generation that could not understand the words of king Benjamin,
being little children at the time he spake unto his people; and
they did not believe the tradition of their fathers.

Mosiah 26:2
 2 They did not believe what had been said concerning the
resurrection of the dead, neither did they believe concerning the
coming of Christ.

Mosiah 26:3
 3 And now because of their unbelief they could not understand
the word of God; and their hearts were hardened.

Mosiah 26:4
 4 And they would not be baptized; neither would they join the
church.  And they were a separate people as to their faith, and
remained so ever after, even in their carnal and sinful state;
for they would not call upon the Lord their God.

Mosiah 26:5
 5 And now in the reign of Mosiah they were not half so numerous
as the people of God; but because of the dissensions among the
brethren they became more numerous.

Mosiah 26:6
 6 For it came to pass that they did deceive many with their
flattering words, who were in the church, and did cause them to
commit many sins; therefore it became expedient that those who
committed sin, that were in the church, should be admonished by
the church.

Mosiah 26:7
 7 And it came to pass that they were brought before the priests,
and delivered up unto the priests by the teachers; and the
priests brought them before Alma, who was the high priest.

Mosiah 26:8
 8 Now king Mosiah had given Alma the authority over the church.

Mosiah 26:9
 9 And it came to pass that Alma did not know concerning them;
but there were many witnesses against them; yea, the people stood
and testified of their iniquity in abundance.

Mosiah 26:10
 10 Now there had not any such thing happened before in the
church; therefore Alma was troubled in his spirit, and he caused
that they should be brought before the king.

Mosiah 26:11
 11 And he said unto the king: 





Mosiah 26:13
 13 And now the spirit of Alma was again troubled; and he went
and inquired of the Lord what he should do concerning this
matter, for he feared that he should do wrong in the sight of
God.

Mosiah 26:14
 14 And it came to pass that after he had poured out his whole
soul to God, the voice of the Lord came to him, saying:





Mosiah 26:33
 33 And it came to pass when Alma had heard these words he wrote
them down that he might have them, and that he might judge the
people of that church according to the commandments of God.

Mosiah 26:34
 34 And it came to pass that Alma went and judged those that had
been taken in iniquity, according to the word of the Lord.

Mosiah 26:35
 35 And whosoever repented of their sins and did confess them,
them he did number among the people of the church;

Mosiah 26:36
 36 And those that would not confess their sins and repent of
their iniquity, the same were not numbered among the people of
the church, and their names were blotted out.

Mosiah 26:37
 37 And it came to pass that Alma did regulate all the affairs of
the church; and they began again to have peace and to prosper
exceedingly in the affairs of the church, walking circumspectly
before God, receiving many, and baptizing many.

Mosiah 26:38
 38 And now all these things did Alma and his fellow laborers do
who were over the church, walking in all diligence, teaching the
word of God in all things, suffering all manner of afflictions,
being persecuted by all those who did not belong to the church of
God.

Mosiah 26:39
 39 And they did admonish their brethren; and they were also
admonished, every one by the word of God, according to his sins,
or to the sins which he had committed, being commanded of God to
pray without ceasing, and to give thanks in all things.

Mosiah 27
Chapter 27

Mosiah 27:1
 1 And now it came to pass that the persecutions which were
inflicted on the church by the unbelievers became so great that
the church began to murmur, and complain to their leaders
concerning the matter; and they did complain to Alma.  And Alma
laid the case before their king, Mosiah.  And Mosiah consulted
with his priests.

Mosiah 27:2
 2 And it came to pass that king Mosiah sent a proclamation
throughout the land round about that there should not any
unbeliever persecute any of those who belonged to the church of
God.

Mosiah 27:3
 3 And there was a strict command throughout all the churches
that there should be no persecutions among them, that there
should be an equality among all men;

Mosiah 27:4
 4 That they should let no pride nor haughtiness disturb their
peace; that every man should esteem his neighbor as himself,
laboring with their own hands for their support.

Mosiah 27:5
 5 Yea, and all their priests and teachers should labor with
their own hands for their support, in all cases save it were in
sickness, or in much want; and doing these things, they did
abound in the grace of God.

Mosiah 27:6
 6 And there began to be much peace again in the land; and the
people began to be very numerous, and began to scatter abroad
upon the face of the earth, yea, on the north and on the south,
on the east and on the west, building large cities and villages
in all quarters of the land.

Mosiah 27:7
 7 And the Lord did visit them and prosper them, and they became
a large and wealthy people.

Mosiah 27:8
 8 Now the sons of Mosiah were numbered among the unbelievers;
and also one of the sons of Alma was numbered among them, he
being called Alma, after his father; nevertheless, he became a
very wicked and an idolatrous man.  And he was a man of many
words, and did speak much flattery to the people; therefore he
led many of the people to do after the manner of his iniquities.

Mosiah 27:9
 9 And he became a great hinderment to the prosperity of the
church of God; stealing away the hearts of the people; causing
much dissension among the people; giving a chance for the enemy
of God to exercise his power over them.

Mosiah 27:10
 10 And now it came to pass that while he was going about to
destroy the church of God, for he did go about secretly with the
sons of Mosiah seeking to destroy the church, and to lead astray
the people of the Lord, contrary to the commandments of God, or
even the king--

Mosiah 27:11
 11 And as I said unto you, as they were going about rebelling
against God, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto them;
and he descended as it were in a cloud; and he spake as it were
with a voice of thunder, which caused the earth to shake upon
which they stood;

Mosiah 27:12
 12 And so great was their astonishment, that they fell to the
earth, and understood not the words which he spake unto them.

Mosiah 27:13
 13 Nevertheless he cried again, saying:





Mosiah 27:17
 17 And now it came to pass that these were the last words which
the angel spake unto Alma, and he departed.

Mosiah 27:18
 18 And now Alma and those that were with him fell again to the
earth, for great was their astonishment; for with their own eyes
they had beheld an angel of the Lord; and his voice was as
thunder, which shook the earth; and they knew that there was
nothing save the power of God that could shake the earth and
cause it to tremble as though it would part asunder.

Mosiah 27:19
 19 And now the astonishment of Alma was so great that he became
dumb, that he could not open his mouth; yea, and he became weak,
even that he could not move his hands; therefore he was taken by
those that were with him, and carried helpless, even until he was
laid before his father.

Mosiah 27:20
 20 And they rehearsed unto his father all that had happened unto
them; and his father rejoiced, for he knew that it was the power
of God.

Mosiah 27:21
 21 And he caused that a multitude should be gathered together
that they might witness what the Lord had done for his son, and
also for those that were with him.

Mosiah 27:22
 22 And he caused that the priests should assemble themselves
together; and they began to fast, and to pray to the Lord their
God that he would open the mouth of Alma, that he might speak,
and also that his limbs might receive their strength--that the
eyes of the people might be opened to see and know of the
goodness and glory of God.

Mosiah 27:23
 23 And it came to pass after they had fasted and prayed for the
space of two days and two nights, the limbs of Alma received
their strength, and he stood up and began to speak unto them,
bidding them to be of good comfort:




Mosiah 27:32
 32 And now it came to pass that Alma began from this time
forward to teach the people, and those who were with Alma at the
time the angel appeared unto them, traveling round about through
all the land, publishing to all the people the things which they
had heard and seen, and preaching the word of God in much
tribulation, being greatly persecuted by those who were
unbelievers, being smitten by many of them.

Mosiah 27:33
 33 But notwithstanding all this, they did impart much
consolation to the church, confirming their faith, and exhorting
them with long-suffering and much travail to keep the
commandments of God.

Mosiah 27:34
 34 And four of them were the sons of Mosiah; and their names
were Ammon, and Aaron, and Omner, and Himni; these were the names
of the sons of Mosiah.

Mosiah 27:35
 35 And they traveled throughout all the lands of Zarahemla, and
among all the people who were under the reign of king Mosiah,
zealously striving to repair all the injuries which they had done
to the church, confessing all their sins, and publishing all the
things which they had seen, and explaining the prophecies and the
scriptures to all who desired to hear them.

Mosiah 27:36
 36 And thus they were instruments in the hands of God in
bringing many to the knowledge of the truth, yea, to the
knowledge of their Redeemer.

Mosiah 27:37
 37 And how blessed are they!  For they did publish peace; they
did publish good tidings of good; and they did declare unto the
people that the Lord reigneth.

Mosiah 28
Chapter 28

Mosiah 28:1
 1 Now it came to pass that after the sons of Mosiah had done all
these things, they took a small number with them and returned to
their father, the king, and desired of him that he would grant
unto them that they might, with these whom they had selected, go
up to the land of Nephi that they might preach the things which
they had heard, and that they might impart the word of God to
their brethren, the Lamanites--

Mosiah 28:2
 2 That perhaps they might bring them to the knowledge of the
Lord their God, and convince them of the iniquity of their
fathers; and that perhaps they might cure them of their hatred
towards the Nephites, that they might also be brought to rejoice
in the Lord their God, that they might become friendly to one
another, and that there should be no more contentions in all the
land which the Lord their God had given them.

Mosiah 28:3
 3 Now they were desirous that salvation should be declared to
every creature, for they could not bear that any human soul
should perish; yea, even the very thoughts that any soul should
endure endless torment did cause them to quake and tremble.

Mosiah 28:4
 4 And thus did the Spirit of the Lord work upon them, for they
were the very vilest of sinners.  And the Lord saw fit in his
infinite mercy to spare them; nevertheless they suffered much
anguish of soul because of their iniquities, suffering much and
fearing that they should be cast off forever.

Mosiah 28:5
 5 And it came to pass that they did plead with their father many
days that they might go up to the land of Nephi.

Mosiah 28:6
 6 And king Mosiah went and inquired of the Lord if he should let
his sons go up among the Lamanites to preach the word.

Mosiah 28:7
 7 And the Lord said unto Mosiah:




Mosiah 28:8
 8 And it came to pass that Mosiah granted that they might go and
do according to their request.

Mosiah 28:9
 9 And they took their journey into the wilderness to go up to
preach the word among the Lamanites; and I shall give an account
of their proceedings hereafter.

Mosiah 28:10
 10 Now king Mosiah had no one to confer the kingdom upon, for
there was not any of his sons who would accept of the kingdom.

Mosiah 28:11
 11 Therefore he took the records which were engraven on the
plates of brass, and also the plates of Nephi, and all the things
which he had kept and preserved according to the commandments of
God, after having translated and caused to be written the records
which were on the plates of gold which had been found by the
people of Limhi, which were delivered to him by the hand of
Limhi;

Mosiah 28:12
 12 And this he did because of the great anxiety of his people;
for they were desirous beyond measure to know concerning those
people who had been destroyed.

Mosiah 28:13
 13 And now he translated them by the means of those two stones
which were fastened into the two rims of a bow.

Mosiah 28:14
 14 Now these things were prepared from the beginning, and were
handed down from generation to generation, for the purpose of
interpreting languages;

Mosiah 28:15
 15 And they have been kept and preserved by the hand of the
Lord, that he should discover to every creature who should
possess the land the iniquities and abominations of his people;

Mosiah 28:16
 16 And whosoever has these things is called seer, after the
manner of old times.

Mosiah 28:17
 17 Now after Mosiah had finished translating these records,
behold, it gave an account of the people who were destroyed, from
the time that they were destroyed back to the building of the
great tower, at the time the Lord confounded the language of the
people and they were scattered abroad upon the face of all the
earth, yea, and even from that time back until the creation of
Adam.

Mosiah 28:18
 18 Now this account did cause the people of Mosiah to mourn
exceedingly, yea, they were filled with sorrow; nevertheless it
gave them much knowledge, in the which they did rejoice.

Mosiah 28:19
 19 And this account shall be written hereafter; for behold, it
is expedient that all people should know the things which are
written in this account.

Mosiah 28:20
 20 And now, as I said unto you, that after king Mosiah had done
these things, he took the plates of brass, and all the things
which he had kept, and conferred them upon Alma, who was the son
of Alma; yea, all the records, and also the interpreters, and
conferred them upon him, and commanded him that he should keep
and preserve them, and also keep a record of the people, handing
them down from one generation to another, even as they had been
handed down from the time that Lehi left Jerusalem.

Mosiah 29
Chapter 29

Mosiah 29:1
 1 Now when Mosiah had done this he sent out throughout all the
land, among all the people, desiring to know their will
concerning who should be their king.

Mosiah 29:2
 2 And it came to pass that the voice of the people came, saying:
We are desirous that Aaron thy son should be our king and our
ruler.

Mosiah 29:3
 3 Now Aaron had gone up to the land of Nephi, therefore the king
could not confer the kingdom upon him; neither would Aaron take
upon him the kingdom; neither were any of the sons of Mosiah
willing to take upon them the kingdom.

Mosiah 29:4
 4 Therefore king Mosiah sent again among the people; yea, even a
written word sent he among the people.  And these were the words
that were written, saying:





Mosiah 29:33
 33 And many more things did king Mosiah write unto them,
unfolding unto them all the trials and troubles of a righteous
king, yea, all the travails of soul for their people, and also
all the murmurings of the people to their king; and he explained
it all unto them.

Mosiah 29:34
 34 And he told them that these things ought not to be; but that
the burden should come upon all the people, that every man might
bear his part.

Mosiah 29:35
 35 And he also unfolded unto them all the disadvantages they
labored under, by having an unrighteous king to rule over them;

Mosiah 29:36
 36 Yea, all his iniquities and abominations, and all the wars,
and contentions, and bloodshed, and the stealing, and the
plundering, and the committing of whoredoms, and all manner of
iniquities which cannot be enumerated--telling them that these
things ought not to be, that they were expressly repugnant to the
commandments of God.

Mosiah 29:37
 37 And now it came to pass, after king Mosiah had sent these
things forth among the people they were convinced of the truth of
his words.

Mosiah 29:38
 38 Therefore they relinquished their desires for a king, and
became exceedingly anxious that every man should have an equal
chance throughout all the land; yea, and every man expressed a
willingness to answer for his own sins.

Mosiah 29:39
 39 Therefore, it came to pass that they assembled themselves
together in bodies throughout the land, to cast in their voices
concerning who should be their judges, to judge them according to
the law which had been given them; and they were exceedingly
rejoiced because of the liberty which had been granted unto them.

Mosiah 29:40
 40 And they did wax strong in love towards Mosiah; yea, they did
esteem him more than any other man; for they did not look upon
him as a tyrant who was seeking for gain, yea, for that lucre
which doth corrupt the soul; for he had not exacted riches of
them, neither had he delighted in the shedding of blood; but he
had established peace in the land, and he had granted unto his
people that they should be delivered from all manner of bondage;
therefore they did esteem him, yea, exceedingly, beyond measure.

Mosiah 29:41
 41 And it came to pass that they did appoint judges to rule over
them, or to judge them according to the law; and this they did
throughout all the land.

Mosiah 29:42
 42 And it came to pass that Alma was appointed to be the first
chief judge, he being also the high priest, his father having
conferred the office upon him, and having given him the charge
concerning all the affairs of the church.

Mosiah 29:43
 43 And now it came to pass that Alma did walk in the ways of the
Lord, and he did keep his commandments, and he did judge
righteous judgments; and there was continual peace through the
land.

Mosiah 29:44
 44 And thus commenced the reign of the judges throughout all the
land of Zarahemla, among all the people who were called the
Nephites; and Alma was the first and chief judge.

Mosiah 29:45
 45 And now it came to pass that his father died, being eighty
and two years old, having lived to fulfil the commandments of
God.

Mosiah 29:46
 46 And it came to pass that Mosiah died also, in the thirty and
third year of his reign, being sixty and three years old; making
in the whole, five hundred and nine years from the time Lehi left
Jerusalem.

Mosiah 29:47
 47 And thus ended the reign of the kings over the people of
Nephi; and thus ended the days of Alma, who was the founder of
their church.