
Moroni 8:2
 2 My beloved son, Moroni, I rejoice exceedingly that your Lord
Jesus Christ hath been mindful of you, and hath called you to his
ministry, and to his holy work.

Moroni 8:3
 3 I am mindful of you always in my prayers, continually praying
unto God the Father in the name of his Holy Child, Jesus, that
he, through his infinite goodness and grace, will keep you
through the endurance of faith on his name to the end.

Moroni 8:4
 4 And now, my son, I speak unto you concerning that which
grieveth me exceedingly; for it grieveth me that there should
disputations rise among you.

Moroni 8:5
 5 For, if I have learned the truth, there have been disputations
among you concerning the baptism of your little children.

Moroni 8:6
 6 And now, my son, I desire that ye should labor diligently,
that this gross error should be removed from among you; for, for
this intent I have written this epistle.

Moroni 8:7
 7 For immediately after I had learned these things of you I
inquired of the Lord concerning the matter.  And the word of the
Lord came to me by the power of the Holy Ghost, saying:

Moroni 8:8
 8 Listen to the words of Christ, your Redeemer, your Lord and
your God.  Behold, I came into the world not to call the
righteous but sinners to repentance; the whole need no physician,
but they that are sick; wherefore, little children are whole, for
they are not capable of committing sin; wherefore the curse of
Adam is taken from them in me, that it hath no power over them;
and the law of circumcision is done away in me.

Moroni 8:9
 9 And after this manner did the Holy Ghost manifest the word of
God unto me; wherefore, my beloved son, I know that it is solemn
mockery before God, that ye should baptize little children.

Moroni 8:10
 10 Behold I say unto you that this thing shall ye
teach--repentance and baptism unto those who are accountable and
capable of committing sin; yea, teach parents that they must
repent and be baptized, and humble themselves as their little
children, and they shall all be saved with their little children.

Moroni 8:11
 11 And their little children need no repentance, neither
baptism.  Behold, baptism is unto repentance to the fulfilling
the commandments unto the remission of sins.

Moroni 8:12
 12 But little children are alive in Christ, even from the
foundation of the world; if not so, God is a partial God, and
also a changeable God, and a respecter to persons; for how many
little children have died without baptism!

Moroni 8:13
 13 Wherefore, if little children could not be saved without
baptism, these must have gone to an endless hell.

Moroni 8:14
 14 Behold I say unto you, that he that supposeth that little
children need baptism is in the gall of bitterness and in the
bonds of iniquity, for he hath neither faith, hope, nor charity;
wherefore, should he be cut off while in the thought, he must go
down to hell.

Moroni 8:15
 15 For awful is the wickedness to suppose that God saveth one
child because of baptism, and the other must perish because he
hath no baptism.

Moroni 8:16
 16 Wo be unto them that shall pervert the ways of the Lord after
this manner, for they shall perish except they repent.  Behold, I
speak with boldness, having authority from God; and I fear not
what man can do; for perfect love casteth out all fear.

Moroni 8:17
 17 And I am filled with charity, which is everlasting love;
wherefore, all children are alike unto me; wherefore, I love
little children with a perfect love; and they are all alike and
partakers of salvation.

Moroni 8:18
 18 For I know that God is not a partial God, neither a
changeable being; but he is unchangeable from all eternity to all
eternity.

Moroni 8:19
 19 Little children cannot repent; wherefore, it is awful
wickedness to deny the pure mercies of God unto them, for they
are all alive in him because of his mercy.

Moroni 8:20
 20 And he that saith that little children need baptism denieth
the mercies of Christ, and setteth at naught the atonement of him
and the power of his redemption.

Moroni 8:21
 21 Wo unto such, for they are in danger of death, hell, and an
endless torment.  I speak it boldly; God hath commanded me. 
Listen unto them and give heed, or they stand against you at the
judgment-seat of Christ.

Moroni 8:22
 22 For behold that all little children are alive in Christ, and
also all they that are without the law.  For the power of
redemption cometh on all them that have no law; wherefore, he
that is not condemned, or he that is under no condemnation,
cannot repent; and unto such baptism availeth nothing--

Moroni 8:23
 23 But it is mockery before God, denying the mercies of Christ,
and the power of his Holy Spirit, and putting trust in dead
works.

Moroni 8:24
 24 Behold, my son, this thing ought not to be; for repentance is
unto them that are under condemnation and under the curse of a
broken law.

Moroni 8:25
 25 And the first fruits of repentance is baptism; and baptism
cometh by faith unto the fulfilling the commandments; and the
fulfilling the commandments bringeth remission of sins;

Moroni 8:26
 26 And the remission of sins bringeth meekness, and lowliness of
heart; and because of meekness and lowliness of heart cometh the
visitation of the Holy Ghost, which Comforter filleth with hope
and perfect love, which love endureth by diligence unto prayer,
until the end shall come, when all the saints shall dwell with
God.

Moroni 8:27
 27 Behold, my son, I will write unto you again if I go not out
soon against the Lamanites.  Behold, the pride of this nation, or
the people of the Nephites, hath proven their destruction except
they should repent.

Moroni 8:28
 28 Pray for them, my son, that repentance may come unto them. 
But behold, I fear lest the Spirit hath ceased striving with
them; and in this part of the land they are also seeking to put
down all power and authority which cometh from God; and they are
denying the Holy Ghost.

Moroni 8:29
 29 And after rejecting so great a knowledge, my son, they must
perish soon, unto the fulfilling of the prophecies which were
spoken by the prophets, as well as the words of our Savior
himself.

Moroni 8:30
 30 Farewell, my son, until I shall write unto you, or shall meet
you again.  Amen.



Moroni 9
Chapter 9

Moroni 9:1
 1 My beloved son, I write unto you again that ye may know that I
am yet alive; but I write somewhat of that which is grievous.

Moroni 9:2
 2 For behold, I have had a sore battle with the Lamanites, in
which we did not conquer; and Archeantus has fallen by the sword,
and also Luram and Emron; yea, and we have lost a great number of
our choice men.

Moroni 9:3
 3 And now behold, my son, I fear lest the Lamanites shall
destroy this people; for they do not repent, and Satan stirreth
them up continually to anger one with another.

Moroni 9:4
 4 Behold, I am laboring with them continually; and when I speak
the word of God with sharpness they tremble and anger against me;
and when I use no sharpness they harden their hearts against it;
wherefore, I fear lest the Spirit of the Lord hath ceased
striving with them.

Moroni 9:5
 5 For so exceedingly do they anger that it seemeth me that they
have no fear of death; and they have lost their love, one towards
another; and they thirst after blood and revenge continually.

Moroni 9:6
 6 And now, my beloved son, notwithstanding their hardness, let
us labor diligently; for if we should cease to labor, we should
be brought under condemnation; for we have a labor to perform
whilst in this tabernacle of clay, that we may conquer the enemy
of all righteousness, and rest our souls in the kingdom of God.

Moroni 9:7
 7 And now I write somewhat concerning the sufferings of this
people.  For according to the knowledge which I have received
from Amoron, behold, the Lamanites have many prisoners, which
they took from the tower of Sherrizah; and there were men, women,
and children.

Moroni 9:8
 8 And the husbands and fathers of those women and children they
have slain; and they feed the women upon the flesh of their
husbands, and the children upon the flesh of their fathers; and
no water, save a little, do they give unto them.

Moroni 9:9
 9 And notwithstanding this great abomination of the Lamanites,
it doth not exceed that of our people in Moriantum.  For behold,
many of the daughters of the Lamanites have they taken prisoners;
and after depriving them of that which was most dear and precious
above all things, which is chastity and virtue--

Moroni 9:10
 10 And after they had done this thing, they did murder them in a
most cruel manner, torturing their bodies even unto death; and
after they have done this, they devour their flesh like unto wild
beasts, because of the hardness of their hearts; and they do it
for a token of bravery.

Moroni 9:11
 11 O my beloved son, how can a people like this, that are
without civilization--

Moroni 9:12
 12 (And only a few years have passed away, and they were a civil
and a delightsome people)

Moroni 9:13
 13 But O my son, how can a people like this, whose delight is in
so much abomination--

Moroni 9:14
 14 How can we expect that God will stay his hand in judgment
against us?

Moroni 9:15
 15 Behold, my heart cries: Wo unto this people.  Come out in
judgment, O God, and hide their sins, and wickedness, and
abominations from before thy face!

Moroni 9:16
 16 And again, my son, there are many widows and their daughters
who remain in Sherrizah; and that part of the provisions which
the Lamanites did not carry away, behold, the army of Zenephi has
carried away, and left them to wander whithersoever they can for
food; and many old women do faint by the way and die.

Moroni 9:17
 17 And the army which is with me is weak; and the armies of the
Lamanites are betwixt Sherrizah and me; and as many as have fled
to the army of Aaron have fallen victims to their awful
brutality.

Moroni 9:18
 18 O the depravity of my people!  They are without order and
without mercy.  Behold, I am but a man, and I have but the
strength of a man, and I cannot any longer enforce my commands.

Moroni 9:19
 19 And they have become strong in their perversion; and they are
alike brutal, sparing none, neither old nor young; and they
delight in everything save that which is good; and the suffering
of our women and our children upon all the face of this land doth
exceed everything; yea, tongue cannot tell, neither can it be
written.

Moroni 9:20
 20 And now, my son, I dwell no longer upon this horrible scene. 
Behold, thou knowest the wickedness of this people; thou knowest
that they are without principle, and past feeling; and their
wickedness doth exceed that of the Lamanites.

Moroni 9:21
 21 Behold, my son, I cannot recommend them unto God lest he
should smite me.

Moroni 9:22
 22 But behold, my son, I recommend thee unto God, and I trust in
Christ that thou wilt be saved; and I pray unto God that he will
spare thy life, to witness the return of his people unto him, or
their utter destruction; for I know that they must perish except
they repent and return unto him.

Moroni 9:23
 23 And if they perish it will be like unto the Jaredites,
because of the wilfulness of their hearts, seeking for blood and
revenge.

Moroni 9:24
 24 And if it so be that they perish, we know that many of our
brethren have deserted over unto the Lamanites, and many more
will also desert over unto them; wherefore, write somewhat a few
things, if thou art spared and I shall perish and not see thee;
but I trust that I may see thee soon; for I have sacred records
that I would deliver up unto thee.

Moroni 9:25
 25 My son, be faithful in Christ; and may not the things which I
have written grieve thee, to weigh thee down unto death; but may
Christ lift thee up, and may his sufferings and death, and the
showing his body unto our fathers, and his mercy and
long-suffering, and the hope of his glory and of eternal life,
rest in your mind forever.

Moroni 9:26
 26 And may the grace of God the Father, whose throne is high in
the heavens, and our Lord Jesus Christ, who sitteth on the right
hand of his power, until all things shall become subject unto
him, be, and abide with you forever.  Amen.




