
Alma 8:20
 20 And the man said unto him: I am a Nephite, and I know that
thou art a holy prophet of God, for thou art the man whom an
angel said in a vision: Thou shalt receive.  Therefore, go with
me into my house and I will impart unto thee of my food; and I
know that thou wilt be a blessing unto me and my house.







Alma 10:2
 2 I am Amulek; I am the son of Giddonah, who was the son of
Ishmael, who was a descendant of Aminadi; and it was the same
Aminadi who interpreted the writing which was upon the wall of
the temple, which was written by the finger of God.

Alma 10:3
 3 And Aminadi was a descendant of Nephi, who was the son of
Lehi, who came out of the land of Jerusalem, who was a descendant
of Manasseh, who was the son of Joseph who was sold into Egypt by
the hands of his brethren.

Alma 10:4
 4 And behold, I am also a man of no small reputation among all
those who know me; yea, and behold, I have many kindreds and
friends, and I have also acquired much riches by the hand of my
industry.

Alma 10:5
 5 Nevertheless, after all this, I never have known much of the
ways of the Lord, and his mysteries and marvelous power.  I said
I never had known much of these things; but behold, I mistake,
for I have seen much of his mysteries and his marvelous power;
yea, even in the preservation of the lives of this people.

Alma 10:6
 6 Nevertheless, I did harden my heart, for I was called many
times and I would not hear; therefore I knew concerning these
things, yet I would not know; therefore I went on rebelling
against God, in the wickedness of my heart, even until the fourth
day of this seventh month, which is in the tenth year of the
reign of the judges.

Alma 10:7
 7 As I was journeying to see a very near kindred, behold an
angel of the Lord appeared unto me and said: Amulek, return to
thine own house, for thou shalt feed a prophet of the Lord; yea,
a holy man, who is a chosen man of God; for he has fasted many
days because of the sins of this people, and he is an hungered,
and thou shalt receive him into thy house and feed him, and he
shall bless thee and thy house; and the blessing of the Lord
shall rest upon thee and thy house.

Alma 10:8
 8 And it came to pass that I obeyed the voice of the angel, and
returned towards my house.  And as I was going thither I found
the man whom the angel said unto me: Thou shalt receive into thy
house--and behold it was this same man who has been speaking unto
you concerning the things of God.

Alma 10:9
 9 And the angel said unto me he is a holy man; wherefore I know
he is a holy man because it was said by an angel of God.

Alma 10:10
 10 And again, I know that the things whereof he hath testified
are true; for behold I say unto you, that as the Lord liveth,
even so has he sent his angel to make these things manifest unto
me; and this he has done while this Alma hath dwelt at my house.

Alma 10:11
 11 For behold, he hath blessed mine house, he hath blessed me,
and my women, and my children, and my father and my kinsfolk;
yea, even all my kindred hath he blessed, and the blessing of the
Lord hath rested upon us according to the words which he spake.

Alma 10:12
 12 And now, when Amulek had spoken these words the people began
to be astonished, seeing there was more than one witness who
testified of the things whereof they were accused, and also of
the things which were to come, according to the spirit of
prophecy which was in them.

Alma 10:13
 13 Nevertheless, there were some among them who thought to
question them, that by their cunning devices they might catch
them in their words, that they might find witness against them,
that they might deliver them to their judges that they might be
judged according to the law, and that they might be slain or cast
into prison, according to the crime which they could make appear
or witness against them.

Alma 10:14
 14 Now it was those men who sought to destroy them, who were
lawyers, who were hired or appointed by the people to administer
the law at their times of trials, or at the trials of the crimes
of the people before the judges.

Alma 10:15
 15 Now these lawyers were learned in all the arts and cunning of
the people; and this was to enable them that they might be
skilful in their profession.

Alma 10:16
 16 And it came to pass that they began to question Amulek, that
thereby they might make him cross his words, or contradict the
words which he should speak.

Alma 10:17
 17 Now they knew not that Amulek could know of their designs. 
But it came to pass as they began to question him, he perceived
their thoughts, and he said unto them: O ye wicked and perverse
generation, ye lawyers and hypocrites, for ye are laying the
foundation of the devil; for ye are laying traps and snares to
catch the holy ones of God.

Alma 10:18
 18 Ye are laying plans to pervert the ways of the righteous, and
to bring down the wrath of God upon your heads, even to the utter
destruction of this people.

Alma 10:19
 19 Yea, well did Mosiah say, who was our last king, when he was
about to deliver up the kingdom, having no one to confer it upon,
causing that this people should be governed by their own
voices--yea, well did he say that if the time should come that
the voice of this people should choose iniquity, that is, if the
time should come that this people should fall into transgression,
they would be ripe for destruction.

Alma 10:20
 20 And now I say unto you that well doth the Lord judge of your
iniquities; well doth he cry unto this people, by the voice of
his angels: Repent ye, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at
hand.

Alma 10:21
 21 Yea, well doth he cry, by the voice of his angels that: I
will come down among my people, with equity and justice in my
hands.

Alma 10:22
 22 Yea, and I say unto you that if it were not for the prayers
of the righteous, who are now in the land, that ye would even now
be visited with utter destruction; yet it would not be by flood,
as were the people in the days of Noah, but it would be by
famine, and by pestilence, and the sword.

Alma 10:23
 23 But it is by the prayers of the righteous that ye are spared;
now therefore, if ye will cast out the righteous from among you
then will not the Lord stay his hand; but in his fierce anger he
will come out against you; then ye shall be smitten by famine,
and by pestilence, and by the sword; and the time is soon at hand
except ye repent.

Alma 10:24
 24 And now it came to pass that the people were more angry with
Amulek, and they cried out, saying: This man doth revile against
our laws which are just, and our wise lawyers whom we have
selected.

Alma 10:25
 25 But Amulek stretched forth his hand, and cried the mightier
unto them, saying: O ye wicked and perverse generation, why hath
Satan got such great hold upon your hearts?  Why will ye yield
yourselves unto him that he may have power over you, to blind
your eyes, that ye will not understand the words which are
spoken, according to their truth?

Alma 10:26
 26 For behold, have I testified against your law?  Ye do not
understand; ye say that I have spoken against your law; but I
have not, but I have spoken in favor of your law, to your
condemnation.

Alma 10:27
 27 And now behold, I say unto you, that the foundation of the
destruction of this people is beginning to be laid by the
unrighteousness of your lawyers and your judges.




Yea, if it be according to the
Spirit of the Lord, which is in me; for I shall say nothing which
is contrary to the Spirit of the Lord. 





O thou child of hell, why tempt ye me? 
Knowest thou that the righteous yieldeth to no such temptations?

Alma 11:24
 24 Believest thou that there is no God?  I say unto you, Nay,
thou knowest that there is a God, but thou lovest that lucre more
than him.

Alma 11:25
 25 And now thou hast lied before God unto me.  Thou saidst unto
me--Behold these six onties, which are of great worth, I will
give unto thee--when thou hadst it in thy heart to retain them
from me; and it was only thy desire that I should deny the true
and living God, that thou mightest have cause to destroy me.  And
now behold, for this great evil thou shalt have thy reward.



Yea, there is a true and living God.


An angel hath made them known unto me.


I say unto you he
shall not, for it is impossible for him to deny his word.

 Behold thou hast lied, for
thou sayest that I spake as though I had authority to command God
because I said he shall not save his people in their sins.

Alma 11:37
 37 And I say unto you again that he cannot save them in their
sins; for I cannot deny his word, and he hath said that no
unclean thing can inherit the kingdom of heaven; therefore, how
can ye be saved, except ye inherit the kingdom of heaven? 
Therefore, ye cannot be saved in your sins.


Yea, he is the very Eternal Father
of heaven and of earth, and all things which in them are; he is
the beginning and the end, the first and the last;

Alma 11:40
 40 And he shall come into the world to redeem his people; and he
shall take upon him the transgressions of those who believe on
his name; and these are they that shall have eternal life, and
salvation cometh to none else.

Alma 11:41
 41 Therefore the wicked remain as though there had been no
redemption made, except it be the loosing of the bands of death;
for behold, the day cometh that all shall rise from the dead and
stand before God, and be judged according to their works.

Alma 11:42
 42 Now, there is a death which is called a temporal death; and
the death of Christ shall loose the bands of this temporal death,
that all shall be raised from this temporal death.

Alma 11:43
 43 The spirit and the body shall be reunited again in its
perfect form; both limb and joint shall be restored to its proper
frame, even as we now are at this time; and we shall be brought
to stand before God, knowing even as we know now, and have a
bright recollection of all our guilt.

Alma 11:44
 44 Now, this restoration shall come to all, both old and young,
both bond and free, both male and female, both the wicked and the
righteous; and even there shall not so much as a hair of their
heads be lost; but every thing shall be restored to its perfect
frame, as it is now, or in the body, and shall be brought and be
arraigned before the bar of Christ the Son, and God the Father,
and the Holy Spirit, which is one Eternal God, to be judged
according to their works, whether they be good or whether they be
evil.

Alma 11:45
 45 Now, behold, I have spoken unto you concerning the death of
the mortal body, and also concerning the resurrection of the
mortal body.  I say unto you that this mortal body is raised to
an immortal body, that is from death, even from the first death
unto life, that they can die no more; their spirits uniting with
their bodies, never to be divided; thus the whole becoming
spiritual and immortal, that they can no more see corruption.


How can we witness this awful scene?  Therefore let us
stretch forth our hands, and exercise the power of God which is
in us, and save them from the flames.


Behold, perhaps they will burn us
also.




Alma 34:2
 2 My brethren, I think that it is impossible that ye should be
ignorant of the things which have been spoken concerning the
coming of Christ, who is taught by us to be the Son of God; yea,
I know that these things were taught unto you bountifully before
your dissension from among us.

Alma 34:3
 3 And as ye have desired of my beloved brother that he should
make known unto you what ye should do, because of your
afflictions; and he hath spoken somewhat unto you to prepare your
minds; yea, and he hath exhorted you unto faith and to patience--

Alma 34:4
 4 Yea, even that ye would have so much faith as even to plant
the word in your hearts, that ye may try the experiment of its
goodness.

Alma 34:5
 5 And we have beheld that the great question which is in your
minds is whether the word be in the Son of God, or whether there
shall be no Christ.

Alma 34:6
 6 And ye also beheld that my brother has proved unto you, in
many instances, that the word is in Christ unto salvation.

Alma 34:7
 7 My brother has called upon the words of Zenos, that redemption
cometh through the Son of God, and also upon the words of Zenock;
and also he has appealed unto Moses, to prove that these things
are true.

Alma 34:8
 8 And now, behold, I will testify unto you of myself that these
things are true.  Behold, I say unto you, that I do know that
Christ shall come among the children of men, to take upon him the
transgressions of his people, and that he shall atone for the
sins of the world; for the Lord God hath spoken it.

Alma 34:9
 9 For it is expedient that an atonement should be made; for
according to the great plan of the Eternal God there must be an
atonement made, or else all mankind must unavoidably perish; yea,
all are hardened; yea, all are fallen and are lost, and must
perish except it be through the atonement which it is expedient
should be made.

Alma 34:10
 10 For it is expedient that there should be a great and last
sacrifice; yea, not a sacrifice of man, neither of beast, neither
of any manner of fowl; for it shall not be a human sacrifice; but
it must be an infinite and eternal sacrifice.

Alma 34:11
 11 Now there is not any man that can sacrifice his own blood
which will atone for the sins of another.  Now, if a man
murdereth, behold will our law, which is just, take the life of
his brother?  I say unto you, Nay.

Alma 34:12
 12 But the law requireth the life of him who hath murdered;
therefore there can be nothing which is short of an infinite
atonement which will suffice for the sins of the world.

Alma 34:13
 13 Therefore, it is expedient that there should be a great and
last sacrifice; and then shall there be, or it is expedient there
should be, a stop to the shedding of blood; then shall the law of
Moses be fulfilled; yea, it shall be all fulfilled, every jot and
tittle, and none shall have passed away.

Alma 34:14
 14 And behold, this is the whole meaning of the law, every whit
pointing to that great and last sacrifice; and that great and
last sacrifice will be the Son of God, yea, infinite and eternal.

Alma 34:15
 15 And thus he shall bring salvation to all those who shall
believe on his name; this being the intent of this last
sacrifice, to bring about the bowels of mercy, which overpowereth
justice, and bringeth about means unto men that they may have
faith unto repentance.

Alma 34:16
 16 And thus mercy can satisfy the demands of justice, and
encircles them in the arms of safety, while he that exercises no
faith unto repentance is exposed to the whole law of the demands
of justice; therefore only unto him that has faith unto
repentance is brought about the great and eternal plan of
redemption.

Alma 34:17
 17 Therefore may God grant unto you, my brethren, that ye may
begin to exercise your faith unto repentance, that ye begin to
call upon his holy name, that he would have mercy upon you;

Alma 34:18
 18 Yea, cry unto him for mercy; for he is mighty to save.

Alma 34:19
 19 Yea, humble yourselves, and continue in prayer unto him.

Alma 34:20
 20 Cry unto him when ye are in your fields, yea, over all your
flocks.

Alma 34:21
 21 Cry unto him in your houses, yea, over all your household,
both morning, mid-day, and evening.

Alma 34:22
 22 Yea, cry unto him against the power of your enemies.

Alma 34:23
 23 Yea, cry unto him against the devil, who is an enemy to all
righteousness.

Alma 34:24
 24 Cry unto him over the crops of your fields, that ye may
prosper in them.

Alma 34:25
 25 Cry over the flocks of your fields, that they may increase.

Alma 34:26
 26 But this is not all; ye must pour out your souls in your
closets, and your secret places, and in your wilderness.

Alma 34:27
 27 Yea, and when you do not cry unto the Lord, let your hearts
be full, drawn out in prayer unto him continually for your
welfare, and also for the welfare of those who are around you.

Alma 34:28
 28 And now behold, my beloved brethren, I say unto you, do not
suppose that this is all; for after ye have done all these
things, if ye turn away the needy, and the naked, and visit not
the sick and afflicted, and impart of your substance, if ye have,
to those who stand in need--I say unto you, if ye do not any of
these things, behold, your prayer is vain, and availeth you
nothing, and ye are as hypocrites who do deny the faith.

Alma 34:29
 29 Therefore, if ye do not remember to be charitable, ye are as
dross, which the refiners do cast out, (it being of no worth) and
is trodden under foot of men.

Alma 34:30
 30 And now, my brethren, I would that, after ye have received so
many witnesses, seeing that the holy scriptures testify of these
things, ye come forth and bring fruit unto repentance.

Alma 34:31
 31 Yea, I would that ye would come forth and harden not your
hearts any longer; for behold, now is the time and the day of
your salvation; and therefore, if ye will repent and harden not
your hearts, immediately shall the great plan of redemption be
brought about unto you.

Alma 34:32
 32 For behold, this life is the time for men to prepare to meet
God; yea, behold the day of this life is the day for men to
perform their labors.

Alma 34:33
 33 And now, as I said unto you before, as ye have had so many
witnesses, therefore, I beseech of you that ye do not
procrastinate the day of your repentance until the end; for after
this day of life, which is given us to prepare for eternity,
behold, if we do not improve our time while in this life, then
cometh the night of darkness wherein there can be no labor
performed.

Alma 34:34
 34 Ye cannot say, when ye are brought to that awful crisis, that
I will repent, that I will return to my God.  Nay, ye cannot say
this; for that same spirit which doth possess your bodies at the
time that ye go out of this life, that same spirit will have
power to possess your body in that eternal world.

Alma 34:35
 35 For behold, if ye have procrastinated the day of your
repentance even until death, behold, ye have become subjected to
the spirit of the devil, and he doth seal you his; therefore, the
Spirit of the Lord hath withdrawn from you, and hath no place in
you, and the devil hath all power over you; and this is the final
state of the wicked.

Alma 34:36
 36 And this I know, because the Lord hath said he dwelleth not
in unholy temples, but in the hearts of the righteous doth he
dwell; yea, and he has also said that the righteous shall sit
down in his kingdom, to go no more out; but their garments should
be made white through the blood of the Lamb.

Alma 34:37
 37 And now, my beloved brethren, I desire that ye should
remember these things, and that ye should work out your salvation
with fear before God, and that ye should no more deny the coming
of Christ;

Alma 34:38
 38 That ye contend no more against the Holy Ghost, but that ye
receive it, and take upon you the name of Christ; that ye humble
yourselves even to the dust, and worship God, in whatsoever place
ye may be in, in spirit and in truth; and that ye live in
thanksgiving daily, for the many mercies and blessings which he
doth bestow upon you.

Alma 34:39
 39 Yea, and I also exhort you, my brethren, that ye be watchful
unto prayer continually, that ye may not be led away by the
temptations of the devil, that he may not overpower you, that ye
may not become his subjects at the last day; for behold, he
rewardeth you no good thing.

Alma 34:40
 40 And now my beloved brethren, I would exhort you to have
patience, and that ye bear with all manner of afflictions; that
ye do not revile against those who do cast you out because of
your exceeding poverty, lest ye become sinners like unto them;

Alma 34:41
 41 But that ye have patience, and bear with those afflictions,
with a firm hope that ye shall one day rest from all your
afflictions.










