Yea, I desire to dwell among this
people for a time; yea, and perhaps until the day I die.


Nay, but I will be thy servant. 


My brethren, be of good cheer and let us go in search of
the flocks, and we will gather them together and bring them back
unto the place of water; and thus we will preserve the flocks
unto the king and he will not slay us.






Encircle the flocks round about that they
flee not; and I go and contend with these men who do scatter our
flocks.



What wilt thou that I should do for thee, O king? 



What
desirest thou of me? 




Is it because thou hast heard that I defended thy
servants and thy flocks, and slew seven of their brethren with
the sling and with the sword, and smote off the arms of others,
in order to defend thy flocks and thy servants; behold, is it
this that causeth thy marvelings?

Alma 18:17
 17 I say unto you, what is it, that thy marvelings are so great?

Behold, I am a man, and am thy servant; therefore, whatsoever
thou desirest which is right, that will I do.


I am not.


Wilt
thou hearken unto my words, if I tell thee by what power I do
these things?  And this is the thing that I desire of thee.



Believest thou that there is a God?


Believest thou that there is a Great
Spirit?

This is God.  And Ammon said unto him again:
Believest thou that this Great Spirit, who is God, created all
things which are in heaven and in the earth?

The heavens is a place where God
dwells and all his holy angels.


Yea, and he looketh down upon all the
children of men; and he knows all the thoughts and intents of the
heart; for by his hand were they all created from the beginning.


I am a man; and man in the beginning was
created after the image of God, and I am called by his Holy
Spirit to teach these things unto this people, that they may be
brought to a knowledge of that which is just and true;

Alma 18:35
 35 And a portion of that Spirit dwelleth in me, which giveth me
knowledge, and also power according to my faith and desires which
are in God.



He is not dead, but he sleepeth in
God, and on the morrow he shall rise again; therefore bury him
not.



Believest thou this? 


Blessed art thou because of thy
exceeding faith; I say unto thee, woman, there has not been such
great faith among all the people of the Nephites.


Behold, my brother and brethren are in prison at
Middoni, and I go that I may deliver them.

No one hath told me, save it be God;
and he said unto me--Go and deliver thy brethren, for they are in
prison in the land of Middoni.


Behold, thou shalt
not slay thy son; nevertheless, it were better that he should
fall than thee, for behold, he has repented of his sins; but if
thou shouldst fall at this time, in thine anger, thy soul could
not be saved.

Alma 20:18
 18 And again, it is expedient that thou shouldst forbear; for if
thou shouldst slay thy son, he being an innocent man, his blood
would cry from the ground to the Lord his God, for vengeance to
come upon thee; and perhaps thou wouldst lose thy soul.


Behold, I will
smite thee except thou wilt grant unto me that my brethren may be
cast out of prison.


If thou wilt grant
that my brethren may be cast out of prison, and also that Lamoni
may retain his kingdom, and that ye be not displeased with him,
but grant that he may do according to his own desires in
whatsoever thing he thinketh, then will I spare thee; otherwise I
will smite thee to the earth.










