Behold, this is the first time that
priestcraft has been introduced among this people.  And behold,
thou art not only guilty of priestcraft, but hast endeavored to
enforce it by the sword; and were priestcraft to be enforced
among this people it would prove their entire destruction.

Alma 1:13
 13 And thou hast shed the blood of a righteous man, yea, a man
who has done much good among this people; and were we to spare
thee his blood would come upon us for vengeance.

Alma 1:14
 14 Therefore thou art condemned to die, according to the law
which has been given us by Mosiah, our last king; and it has been
acknowledged by this people; therefore this people must abide by
the law.





O Lord, have mercy and
spare my life, that I may be an instrument in thy hands to save
and preserve this people.






Alma 5:3
 3 I, Alma, having been consecrated by my father, Alma, to be a
high priest over the church of God, he having power and authority
from God to do these things, behold, I say unto you that he began
to establish a church in the land which was in the borders of
Nephi; yea, the land which was called the land of Mormon; yea,
and he did baptize his brethren in the waters of Mormon.

Alma 5:4
 4 And behold, I say unto you, they were delivered out of the
hands of the people of king Noah, by the mercy and power of God.

Alma 5:5
 5 And behold, after that, they were brought into bondage by the
hands of the Lamanites in the wilderness; yea, I say unto you,
they were in captivity, and again the Lord did deliver them out
of bondage by the power of his word; and we were brought into
this land, and here we began to establish the church of God
throughout this land also.

Alma 5:6
 6 And now behold, I say unto you, my brethren, you that belong
to this church, have you sufficiently retained in remembrance the
captivity of your fathers?  Yea, and have you sufficiently
retained in remembrance his mercy and long-suffering towards
them?  And moreover, have ye sufficiently retained in remembrance
that he has delivered their souls from hell?

Alma 5:7
 7 Behold, he changed their hearts; yea, he awakened them out of
a deep sleep, and they awoke unto God.  Behold, they were in the
midst of darkness; nevertheless, their souls were illuminated by
the light of the everlasting word; yea, they were encircled about
by the bands of death, and the chains of hell, and an everlasting
destruction did await them.

Alma 5:8
 8 And now I ask of you, my brethren, were they destroyed? 
Behold, I say unto you, Nay, they were not.

Alma 5:9
 9 And again I ask, were the bands of death broken, and the
chains of hell which encircled them about, were they loosed?  I
say unto you, Yea, they were loosed, and their souls did expand,
and they did sing redeeming love.  And I say unto you that they
are saved.

Alma 5:10
 10 And now I ask of you on what conditions are they saved?  Yea,
what grounds had they to hope for salvation?  What is the cause
of their being loosed from the bands of death, yea, and also the
chains of hell?

Alma 5:11
 11 Behold, I can tell you--did not my father Alma believe in the
words which were delivered by the mouth of Abinadi?  And was he
not a holy prophet?  Did he not speak the words of God, and my
father Alma believe them?

Alma 5:12
 12 And according to his faith there was a mighty change wrought
in his heart.  Behold I say unto you that this is all true.

Alma 5:13
 13 And behold, he preached the word unto your fathers, and a
mighty change was also wrought in their hearts, and they humbled
themselves and put their trust in the true and living God.  And
behold, they were faithful until the end; therefore they were
saved.

Alma 5:14
 14 And now behold, I ask of you, my brethren of the church, have
ye spiritually been born of God?  Have ye received his image in
your countenances?  Have ye experienced this mighty change in
your hearts?

Alma 5:15
 15 Do ye exercise faith in the redemption of him who created
you?  Do you look forward with an eye of faith, and view this
mortal body raised in immortality, and this corruption raised in
incorruption, to stand before God to be judged according to the
deeds which have been done in the mortal body?

Alma 5:16
 16 I say unto you, can you imagine to yourselves that ye hear
the voice of the Lord, saying unto you, in that day: Come unto me
ye blessed, for behold, your works have been the works of
righteousness upon the face of the earth?

Alma 5:17
 17 Or do ye imagine to yourselves that ye can lie unto the Lord
in that day, and say--Lord, our works have been righteous works
upon the face of the earth--and that he will save you?

Alma 5:18
 18 Or otherwise, can ye imagine yourselves brought before the
tribunal of God with your souls filled with guilt and remorse,
having a remembrance of all your guilt, yea, a perfect
remembrance of all your wickedness, yea, a remembrance that ye
have set at defiance the commandments of God?

Alma 5:19
 19 I say unto you, can ye look up to God at that day with a pure
heart and clean hands?  I say unto you, can you look up, having
the image of God engraven upon your countenances?

Alma 5:20
 20 I say unto you, can ye think of being saved when you have
yielded yourselves to become subjects to the devil?

Alma 5:21
 21 I say unto you, ye will know at that day that ye cannot be
saved; for there can no man be saved except his garments are
washed white; yea, his garments must be purified until they are
cleansed from all stain, through the blood of him of whom it has
been spoken by our fathers, who should come to redeem his people
from their sins.

Alma 5:22
 22 And now I ask of you, my brethren, how will any of you feel,
if ye shall stand before the bar of God, having your garments
stained with blood and all manner of filthiness?  Behold, what
will these things testify against you?

Alma 5:23
 23 Behold will they not testify that ye are murderers, yea, and
also that ye are guilty of all manner of wickedness?

Alma 5:24
 24 Behold, my brethren, do ye suppose that such an one can have
a place to sit down in the kingdom of God, with Abraham, with
Isaac, and with Jacob, and also all the holy prophets, whose
garments are cleansed and are spotless, pure and white?

Alma 5:25
 25 I say unto you, Nay; except ye make our Creator a liar from
the beginning, or suppose that he is a liar from the beginning,
ye cannot suppose that such can have place in the kingdom of
heaven; but they shall be cast out for they are the children of
the kingdom of the devil.

Alma 5:26
 26 And now behold, I say unto you, my brethren, if ye have
experienced a change of heart, and if ye have felt to sing the
song of redeeming love, I would ask, can ye feel so now?

Alma 5:27
 27 Have ye walked, keeping yourselves blameless before God? 
Could ye say, if ye were called to die at this time, within
yourselves, that ye have been sufficiently humble?  That your
garments have been cleansed and made white through the blood of
Christ, who will come to redeem his people from their sins?

Alma 5:28
 28 Behold, are ye stripped of pride?  I say unto you, if ye are
not ye are not prepared to meet God.  Behold ye must prepare
quickly; for the kingdom of heaven is soon at hand, and such an
one hath not eternal life.

Alma 5:29
 29 Behold, I say, is there one among you who is not stripped of
envy?  I say unto you that such an one is not prepared; and I
would that he should prepare quickly, for the hour is close at
hand, and he knoweth not when the time shall come; for such an
one is not found guiltless.

Alma 5:30
 30 And again I say unto you, is there one among you that doth
make a mock of his brother, or that heapeth upon him
persecutions?

Alma 5:31
 31 Wo unto such an one, for he is not prepared, and the time is
at hand that he must repent or he cannot be saved!

Alma 5:32
 32 Yea, even wo unto all ye workers of iniquity; repent, repent,
for the Lord God hath spoken it!

Alma 5:33
 33 Behold, he sendeth an invitation unto all men, for the arms
of mercy are extended towards them, and he saith: Repent, and I
will receive you.

Alma 5:34
 34 Yea, he saith: Come unto me and ye shall partake of the fruit
of the tree of life; yea, ye shall eat and drink of the bread and
the waters of life freely;

Alma 5:35
 35 Yea, come unto me and bring forth works of righteousness, and
ye shall not be hewn down and cast into the fire--

Alma 5:36
 36 For behold, the time is at hand that whosoever bringeth forth
not good fruit, or whosoever doeth not the works of
righteousness, the same have cause to wail and mourn.

Alma 5:37
 37 O ye workers of iniquity; ye that are puffed up in the vain
things of the world, ye that have professed to have known the
ways of righteousness nevertheless have gone astray, as sheep
having no shepherd, notwithstanding a shepherd hath called after
you and is still calling after you, but ye will not hearken unto
his voice!

Alma 5:38
 38 Behold, I say unto you, that the good shepherd doth call you;
yea, and in his own name he doth call you, which is the name of
Christ; and if ye will not hearken unto the voice of the good
shepherd, to the name by which ye are called, behold, ye are not
the sheep of the good shepherd.

Alma 5:39
 39 And now if ye are not the sheep of the good shepherd, of what
fold are ye?  Behold, I say unto you, that the devil is your
shepherd, and ye are of his fold; and now, who can deny this? 
Behold, I say unto you, whosoever denieth this is a liar and a
child of the devil.

Alma 5:40
 40 For I say unto you that whatsoever is good cometh from God,
and whatsoever is evil cometh from the devil.

Alma 5:41
 41 Therefore, if a man bringeth forth good works he hearkeneth
unto the voice of the good shepherd, and he doth follow him; but
whosoever bringeth forth evil works, the same becometh a child of
the devil, for he hearkeneth unto his voice, and doth follow him.

Alma 5:42
 42 And whosoever doeth this must receive his wages of him;
therefore, for his wages he receiveth death, as to things
pertaining unto righteousness, being dead unto all good works.

Alma 5:43
 43 And now, my brethren, I would that ye should hear me, for I
speak in the energy of my soul; for behold, I have spoken unto
you plainly that ye cannot err, or have spoken according to the
commandments of God.

Alma 5:44
 44 For I am called to speak after this manner, according to the
holy order of God, which is in Christ Jesus; yea, I am commanded
to stand and testify unto this people the things which have been
spoken by our fathers concerning the things which are to come.

Alma 5:45
 45 And this is not all.  Do ye not suppose that I know of these
things myself?  Behold, I testify unto you that I do know that
these things whereof I have spoken are true.  And how do ye
suppose that I know of their surety?

Alma 5:46
 46 Behold, I say unto you they are made known unto me by the
Holy Spirit of God.  Behold, I have fasted and prayed many days
that I might know these things of myself.  And now I do know of
myself that they are true; for the Lord God hath made them
manifest unto me by his Holy Spirit; and this is the spirit of
revelation which is in me.

Alma 5:47
 47 And moreover, I say unto you that it has thus been revealed
unto me, that the words which have been spoken by our fathers are
true, even so according to the spirit of prophecy which is in me,
which is also by the manifestation of the Spirit of God.

Alma 5:48
 48 I say unto you, that I know of myself that whatsoever I shall
say unto you, concerning that which is to come, is true; and I
say unto you, that I know that Jesus Christ shall come, yea, the
Son, the Only Begotten of the Father, full of grace, and mercy,
and truth.  And behold, it is he that cometh to take away the
sins of the world, yea, the sins of every man who steadfastly
believeth on his name.

Alma 5:49
 49 And now I say unto you that this is the order after which I
am called, yea, to preach unto my beloved brethren, yea, and
every one that dwelleth in the land; yea, to preach unto all,
both old and young, both bond and free; yea, I say unto you the
aged, and also the middle aged, and the rising generation; yea,
to cry unto them that they must repent and be born again.

Alma 5:50
 50 Yea, thus saith the Spirit: Repent, all ye ends of the earth,
for the kingdom of heaven is soon at hand; yea, the Son of God
cometh in his glory, in his might, majesty, power, and dominion. 
Yea, my beloved brethren, I say unto you, that the Spirit saith:
Behold the glory of the King of all the earth; and also the King
of heaven shall very soon shine forth among all the children of
men.

Alma 5:51
 51 And also the Spirit saith unto me, yea, crieth unto me with a
mighty voice, saying: Go forth and say unto this people--Repent,
for except ye repent ye can in nowise inherit the kingdom of
heaven.

Alma 5:52
 52 And again I say unto you, the Spirit saith: Behold, the ax is
laid at the root of the tree; therefore every tree that bringeth
not forth good fruit shall be hewn down and cast into the fire,
yea, a fire which cannot be consumed, even an unquenchable fire. 
Behold, and remember, the Holy One hath spoken it.

Alma 5:53
 53 And now my beloved brethren, I say unto you, can ye withstand
these sayings; yea, can ye lay aside these things, and trample
the Holy One under your feet; yea, can ye be puffed up in the
pride of your hearts; yea, will ye still persist in the wearing
of costly apparel and setting your hearts upon the vain things of
the world, upon your riches?

Alma 5:54
 54 Yea, will ye persist in supposing that ye are better one than
another; yea, will ye persist in the persecution of your
brethren, who humble themselves and do walk after the holy order
of God, wherewith they have been brought into this church, having
been sanctified by the Holy Spirit, and they do bring forth works
which are meet for repentance--

Alma 5:55
 55 Yea, and will you persist in turning your backs upon the
poor, and the needy, and in withholding your substance from them?

Alma 5:56
 56 And finally, all ye that will persist in your wickedness, I
say unto you that these are they who shall be hewn down and cast
into the fire except they speedily repent.

Alma 5:57
 57 And now I say unto you, all you that are desirous to follow
the voice of the good shepherd, come ye out from the wicked, and
be ye separate, and touch not their unclean things; and behold,
their names shall be blotted out, that the names of the wicked
shall not be numbered among the names of the righteous, that the
word of God may be fulfilled, which saith: The names of the
wicked shall not be mingled with the names of my people;

Alma 5:58
 58 For the names of the righteous shall be written in the book
of life, and unto them will I grant an inheritance at my right
hand.  And now, my brethren, what have ye to say against this?  I
say unto you, if ye speak against it, it matters not, for the
word of God must be fulfilled.

Alma 5:59
 59 For what shepherd is there among you having many sheep doth
not watch over them, that the wolves enter not and devour his
flock?  And behold, if a wolf enter his flock doth he not drive
him out?  Yea, and at the last, if he can, he will destroy him.

Alma 5:60
 60 And now I say unto you that the good shepherd doth call after
you; and if you will hearken unto his voice he will bring you
into his fold, and ye are his sheep; and he commandeth you that
ye suffer no ravenous wolf to enter among you, that ye may not be
destroyed.

Alma 5:61
 61 And now I, Alma, do command you in the language of him who
hath commanded me, that ye observe to do the words which I have
spoken unto you.

Alma 5:62
 62 I speak by way of command unto you that belong to the church;
and unto those who do not belong to the church I speak by way of
invitation, saying: Come and be baptized unto repentance, that ye
also may be partakers of the fruit of the tree of life.





Alma 7
Chapter 7

Alma 7:1
 1 Behold my beloved brethren, seeing that I have been permitted
to come unto you, therefore I attempt to address you in my
language; yea, by my own mouth, seeing that it is the first time
that I have spoken unto you by the words of my mouth, I having
been wholly confined to the judgment-seat, having had much
business that I could not come unto you.

Alma 7:2
 2 And even I could not have come now at this time were it not
that the judgment-seat hath been given to another, to reign in my
stead; and the Lord in much mercy hath granted that I should come
unto you.

Alma 7:3
 3 And behold, I have come having great hopes and much desire
that I should find that ye had humbled yourselves before God, and
that ye had continued in the supplicating of his grace, that I
should find that ye were blameless before him, that I should find
that ye were not in the awful dilemma that our brethren were in
at Zarahemla.

Alma 7:4
 4 But blessed be the name of God, that he hath given me to know,
yea, hath given unto me the exceedingly great joy of knowing that
they are established again in the way of his righteousness.

Alma 7:5
 5 And I trust, according to the Spirit of God which is in me,
that I shall also have joy over you; nevertheless I do not desire
that my joy over you should come by the cause of so much
afflictions and sorrow which I have had for the brethren at
Zarahemla, for behold, my joy cometh over them after wading
through much affliction and sorrow.

Alma 7:6
 6 But behold, I trust that ye are not in a state of so much
unbelief as were your brethren; I trust that ye are not lifted up
in the pride of your hearts; yea, I trust that ye have not set
your hearts upon riches and the vain things of the world; yea, I
trust that you do not worship idols, but that ye do worship the
true and living God, and that ye look forward for the remission
of your sins, with an everlasting faith, which is to come.

Alma 7:7
 7 For behold, I say unto you there be many things to come; and
behold, there is one thing which is of more importance than they
all--for behold, the time is not far distant that the Redeemer
liveth and cometh among his people.

Alma 7:8
 8 Behold, I do not say that he will come among us at the time of
his dwelling in his mortal tabernacle; for behold, the Spirit
hath not said unto me that this should be the case.  Now as to
this thing I do not know; but this much I do know, that the Lord
God hath power to do all things which are according to his word.

Alma 7:9
 9 But behold, the Spirit hath said this much unto me, saying:
Cry unto this people, saying--Repent ye, and prepare the way of
the Lord, and walk in his paths, which are straight; for behold,
the kingdom of heaven is at hand, and the Son of God cometh upon
the face of the earth.

Alma 7:10
 10 And behold, he shall be born of Mary, at Jerusalem which is
the land of our forefathers, she being a virgin, a precious and
chosen vessel, who shall be overshadowed and conceive by the
power of the Holy Ghost, and bring forth a son, yea, even the Son
of God.

Alma 7:11
 11 And he shall go forth, suffering pains and afflictions and
temptations of every kind; and this that the word might be
fulfilled which saith he will take upon him the pains and the
sicknesses of his people.

Alma 7:12
 12 And he will take upon him death, that he may loose the bands
of death which bind his people; and he will take upon him their
infirmities, that his bowels may be filled with mercy, according
to the flesh, that he may know according to the flesh how to
succor his people according to their infirmities.

Alma 7:13
 13 Now the Spirit knoweth all things; nevertheless the Son of
God suffereth according to the flesh that he might take upon him
the sins of his people, that he might blot out their
transgressions according to the power of his deliverance; and now
behold, this is the testimony which is in me.

Alma 7:14
 14 Now I say unto you that ye must repent, and be born again;
for the Spirit saith if ye are not born again ye cannot inherit
the kingdom of heaven; therefore come and be baptized unto
repentance, that ye may be washed from your sins, that ye may
have faith on the Lamb of God, who taketh away the sins of the
world, who is mighty to save and to cleanse from all
unrighteousness.

Alma 7:15
 15 Yea, I say unto you come and fear not, and lay aside every
sin, which easily doth beset you, which doth bind you down to
destruction, yea, come and go forth, and show unto your God that
ye are willing to repent of your sins and enter into a covenant
with him to keep his commandments, and witness it unto him this
day by going into the waters of baptism.

Alma 7:16
 16 And whosoever doeth this, and keepeth the commandments of God
from thenceforth, the same will remember that I say unto him,
yea, he will remember that I have said unto him, he shall have
eternal life, according to the testimony of the Holy Spirit,
which testifieth in me.

Alma 7:17
 17 And now my beloved brethren, do you believe these things? 
Behold, I say unto you, yea, I know that ye believe them; and the
way that I know that ye believe them is by the manifestation of
the Spirit which is in me.  And now because your faith is strong
concerning that, yea, concerning the things which I have spoken,
great is my joy.

Alma 7:18
 18 For as I said unto you from the beginning, that I had much
desire that ye were not in the state of dilemma like your
brethren, even so I have found that my desires have been
gratified.

Alma 7:19
 19 For I perceive that ye are in the paths of righteousness; I
perceive that ye are in the path which leads to the kingdom of
God; yea, I perceive that ye are making his paths straight.

Alma 7:20
 20 I perceive that it has been made known unto you, by the
testimony of his word, that he cannot walk in crooked paths;
neither doth he vary from that which he hath said; neither hath
he a shadow of turning from the right to the left, or from that
which is right to that which is wrong; therefore, his course is
one eternal round.

Alma 7:21
 21 And he doth not dwell in unholy temples; neither can
filthiness or anything which is unclean be received into the
kingdom of God; therefore I say unto you the time shall come,
yea, and it shall be at the last day, that he who is filthy shall
remain in his filthiness.

Alma 7:22
 22 And now my beloved brethren, I have said these things unto
you that I might awaken you to a sense of your duty to God, that
ye may walk blameless before him, that ye may walk after the holy
order of God, after which ye have been received.

Alma 7:23
 23 And now I would that ye should be humble, and be submissive
and gentle; easy to be entreated; full of patience and
long-suffering; being temperate in all things; being diligent in
keeping the commandments of God at all times; asking for
whatsoever things ye stand in need, both spiritual and temporal;
always returning thanks unto God for whatsoever things ye do
receive.

Alma 7:24
 24 And see that ye have faith, hope, and charity, and then ye
will always abound in good works.

Alma 7:25
 25 And may the Lord bless you, and keep your garments spotless,
that ye may at last be brought to sit down with Abraham, Isaac,
and Jacob, and the holy prophets who have been ever since the
world began, having your garments spotless even as their garments
are spotless, in the kingdom of heaven to go no more out.

Alma 7:26
 26 And now my beloved brethren, I have spoken these words unto
you according to the Spirit which testifieth in me; and my soul
doth exceedingly rejoice, because of the exceeding diligence and
heed which ye have given unto my word.

Alma 7:27
 27 And now, may the peace of God rest upon you, and upon your
houses and lands, and upon your flocks and herds, and all that
you possess, your women and your children, according to your
faith and good works, from this time forth and forever.  And thus
I have spoken.  Amen.





Will ye give to an humble servant of God something to eat?





I
am Alma, and am the high priest over the church of God throughout
the land.

Alma 8:24
 24 And behold, I have been called to preach the word of God
among all this people, according to the spirit of revelation and
prophecy; and I was in this land and they would not receive me,
but they cast me out and I was about to set my back towards this
land forever.

Alma 8:25
 25 But behold, I have been commanded that I should turn again
and prophesy unto this people, yea, and to testify against them
concerning their iniquities.

Alma 8:26
 26 And now, Amulek, because thou hast fed me and taken me in,
thou art blessed; for I was an hungered, for I had fasted many
days.






Alma 9
Chapter 9

Alma 9:1
 1 And again, I, Alma, having been commanded of God that I should
take Amulek and go forth and preach again unto this people, or
the people who were in the city of Ammonihah, it came to pass as
I began to preach unto them, they began to contend with me,
saying:

Alma 9:2
 2 Who art thou?  Suppose ye that we shall believe the testimony
of one man, although he should preach unto us that the earth
should pass away?

Alma 9:3
 3 Now they understood not the words which they spake; for they
knew not that the earth should pass away.

Alma 9:4
 4 And they said also: We will not believe thy words if thou
shouldst prophesy that this great city should be destroyed in one
day.

Alma 9:5
 5 Now they knew not that God could do such marvelous works, for
they were a hard-hearted and a stiffnecked people.

Alma 9:6
 6 And they said: Who is God, that sendeth no more authority than
one man among this people, to declare unto them the truth of such
great and marvelous things?

Alma 9:7
 7 And they stood forth to lay their hands on me; but behold,
they did not.  And I stood with boldness to declare unto them,
yea, I did boldly testify unto them, saying:

Alma 9:8
 8 Behold, O ye wicked and perverse generation, how have ye
forgotten the tradition of your fathers; yea, how soon ye have
forgotten the commandments of God.

Alma 9:9
 9 Do ye not remember that our father, Lehi, was brought out of
Jerusalem by the hand of God?  Do ye not remember that they were
all led by him through the wilderness?

Alma 9:10
 10 And have ye forgotten so soon how many times he delivered our
fathers out of the hands of their enemies, and preserved them
from being destroyed, even by the hands of their own brethren?

Alma 9:11
 11 Yea, and if it had not been for his matchless power, and his
mercy, and his long-suffering towards us, we should unavoidably
have been cut off from the face of the earth long before this
period of time, and perhaps been consigned to a state of endless
misery and woe.

Alma 9:12
 12 Behold, now I say unto you that he commandeth you to repent;
and except ye repent, ye can in nowise inherit the kingdom of
God.  But behold, this is not all--he has commanded you to
repent, or he will utterly destroy you from off the face of the
earth; yea, he will visit you in his anger, and in his fierce
anger he will not turn away.

Alma 9:13
 13 Behold, do ye not remember the words which he spake unto
Lehi, saying that: Inasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments, ye
shall prosper in the land?  And again it is said that: Inasmuch
as ye will not keep my commandments ye shall be cut off from the
presence of the Lord.

Alma 9:14
 14 Now I would that ye should remember, that inasmuch as the
Lamanites have not kept the commandments of God, they have been
cut off from the presence of the Lord.  Now we see that the word
of the Lord has been verified in this thing, and the Lamanites
have been cut off from his presence, from the beginning of their
transgressions in the land.

Alma 9:15
 15 Nevertheless I say unto you, that it shall be more tolerable
for them in the day of judgment than for you, if ye remain in
your sins, yea, and even more tolerable for them in this life
than for you, except ye repent.

Alma 9:16
 16 For there are many promises which are extended to the
Lamanites; for it is because of the traditions of their fathers
that caused them to remain in their state of ignorance; therefore
the Lord will be merciful unto them and prolong their existence
in the land.

Alma 9:17
 17 And at some period of time they will be brought to believe in
his word, and to know of the incorrectness of the traditions of
their fathers; and many of them will be saved, for the Lord will
be merciful unto all who call on his name.

Alma 9:18
 18 But behold, I say unto you that if ye persist in your
wickedness that your days shall not be prolonged in the land, for
the Lamanites shall be sent upon you; and if ye repent not they
shall come in a time when you know not, and ye shall be visited
with utter destruction; and it shall be according to the fierce
anger of the Lord.

Alma 9:19
 19 For he will not suffer you that ye shall live in your
iniquities, to destroy his people.  I say unto you, Nay; he would
rather suffer that the Lamanites might destroy all his people who
are called the people of Nephi, if it were possible that they
could fall into sins and transgressions, after having had so much
light and so much knowledge given unto them of the Lord their
God;

Alma 9:20
 20 Yea, after having been such a highly favored people of the
Lord; yea, after having been favored above every other nation,
kindred, tongue, or people; after having had all things made
known unto them, according to their desires, and their faith, and
prayers, of that which has been, and which is, and which is to
come;

Alma 9:21
 21 Having been visited by the Spirit of God; having conversed
with angels, and having been spoken unto by the voice of the
Lord; and having the spirit of prophecy, and the spirit of
revelation, and also many gifts, the gift of speaking with
tongues, and the gift of preaching, and the gift of the Holy
Ghost, and the gift of translation;

Alma 9:22
 22 Yea, and after having been delivered of God out of the land
of Jerusalem, by the hand of the Lord; having been saved from
famine, and from sickness, and all manner of diseases of every
kind; and they having waxed strong in battle, that they might not
be destroyed; having been brought out of bondage time after time,
and having been kept and preserved until now; and they have been
prospered until they are rich in all manner of things--

Alma 9:23
 23 And now behold I say unto you, that if this people, who have
received so many blessings from the hand of the Lord, should
transgress contrary to the light and knowledge which they do
have, I say unto you that if this be the case, that if they
should fall into transgression, it would be far more tolerable
for the Lamanites than for them.

Alma 9:24
 24 For behold, the promises of the Lord are extended to the
Lamanites, but they are not unto you if ye transgress; for has
not the Lord expressly promised and firmly decreed, that if ye
will rebel against him that ye shall utterly be destroyed from
off the face of the earth?

Alma 9:25
 25 And now for this cause, that ye may not be destroyed, the
Lord has sent his angel to visit many of his people, declaring
unto them that they must go forth and cry mightily unto this
people, saying: Repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is nigh at
hand;

Alma 9:26
 26 And not many days hence the Son of God shall come in his
glory; and his glory shall be the glory of the Only Begotten of
the Father, full of grace, equity, and truth, full of patience,
mercy, and long-suffering, quick to hear the cries of his people
and to answer their prayers.

Alma 9:27
 27 And behold, he cometh to redeem those who will be baptized
unto repentance, through faith on his name.

Alma 9:28
 28 Therefore, prepare ye the way of the Lord, for the time is at
hand that all men shall reap a reward of their works, according
to that which they have been--if they have been righteous they
shall reap the salvation of their souls, according to the power
and deliverance of Jesus Christ; and if they have been evil they
shall reap the damnation of their souls, according to the power
and captivation of the devil.

Alma 9:29
 29 Now behold, this is the voice of the angel, crying unto the
people.

Alma 9:30
 30 And now, my beloved brethren, for ye are my brethren, and ye
ought to be beloved, and ye ought to bring forth works which are
meet for repentance, seeing that your hearts have been grossly
hardened against the word of God, and seeing that ye are a lost
and a fallen people.

Alma 9:31
 31 Now it came to pass that when I, Alma, had spoken these
words, behold, the people were wroth with me because I said unto
them that they were a hard-hearted and a stiffnecked people.

Alma 9:32
 32 And also because I said unto them that they were a lost and a
fallen people they were angry with me, and sought to lay their
hands upon me, that they might cast me into prison.

Alma 9:33
 33 But it came to pass that the Lord did not suffer them that
they should take me at that time and cast me into prison.



Alma 12:3
 3 Now Zeezrom, seeing that thou hast been taken in thy lying and
craftiness, for thou hast not lied unto men only but thou hast
lied unto God; for behold, he knows all thy thoughts, and thou
seest that thy thoughts are made known unto us by his Spirit;

Alma 12:4
 4 And thou seest that we know that thy plan was a very subtle
plan, as to the subtlety of the devil, for to lie and to deceive
this people that thou mightest set them against us, to revile us
and to cast us out--

Alma 12:5
 5 Now this was a plan of thine adversary, and he hath exercised
his power in thee.  Now I would that ye should remember that what
I say unto thee I say unto all.

Alma 12:6
 6 And behold I say unto you all that this was a snare of the
adversary, which he has laid to catch this people, that he might
bring you into subjection unto him, that he might encircle you
about with his chains, that he might chain you down to
everlasting destruction, according to the power of his captivity.



It is given unto many to know the mysteries of God; nevertheless
they are laid under a strict command that they shall not impart
only according to the portion of his word which he doth grant
unto the children of men, according to the heed and diligence
which they give unto him.

Alma 12:10
 10 And therefore, he that will harden his heart, the same
receiveth the lesser portion of the word; and he that will not
harden his heart, to him is given the greater portion of the
word, until it is given unto him to know the mysteries of God
until he know them in full.

Alma 12:11
 11 And they that will harden their hearts, to them is given the
lesser portion of the word until they know nothing concerning his
mysteries; and then they are taken captive by the devil, and led
by his will down to destruction.  Now this is what is meant by
the chains of hell.

Alma 12:12
 12 And Amulek hath spoken plainly concerning death, and being
raised from this mortality to a state of immortality, and being
brought before the bar of God, to be judged according to our
works.

Alma 12:13
 13 Then if our hearts have been hardened, yea, if we have
hardened our hearts against the word, insomuch that it has not
been found in us, then will our state be awful, for then we shall
be condemned.

Alma 12:14
 14 For our words will condemn us, yea, all our works will
condemn us; we shall not be found spotless; and our thoughts will
also condemn us; and in this awful state we shall not dare to
look up to our God; and we would fain be glad if we could command
the rocks and the mountains to fall upon us to hide us from his
presence.

Alma 12:15
 15 But this cannot be; we must come forth and stand before him
in his glory, and in his power, and in his might, majesty, and
dominion, and acknowledge to our everlasting shame that all his
judgments are just; that he is just in all his works, and that he
is merciful unto the children of men, and that he has all power
to save every man that believeth on his name and bringeth forth
fruit meet for repentance.

Alma 12:16
 16 And now behold, I say unto you then cometh a death, even a
second death, which is a spiritual death; then is a time that
whosoever dieth in his sins, as to a temporal death, shall also
die a spiritual death; yea, he shall die as to things pertaining
unto righteousness.

Alma 12:17
 17 Then is the time when their torments shall be as a lake of
fire and brimstone, whose flame ascendeth up forever and ever;
and then is the time that they shall be chained down to an
everlasting destruction, according to the power and captivity of
Satan, he having subjected them according to his will.

Alma 12:18
 18 Then, I say unto you, they shall be as though there had been
no redemption made; for they cannot be redeemed according to
God's justice; and they cannot die, seeing there is no more
corruption.

Alma 12:19
 19 Now it came to pass that when Alma had made an end of
speaking these words, the people began to be more astonished;

Alma 12:20
 20 But there was one Antionah, who was a chief ruler among them,
came forth and said unto him: What is this that thou hast said,
that man should rise from the dead and be changed from this
mortal to an immortal state that the soul can never die?

Alma 12:21
 21 What does the scripture mean, which saith that God placed
cherubim and a flaming sword on the east of the garden of Eden,
lest our first parents should enter and partake of the fruit of
the tree of life, and live forever?  And thus we see that there
was no possible chance that they should live forever.

Alma 12:22
 22 Now Alma said unto him:  This is the thing which I was about
to explain, now we see that Adam did fall by the partaking of the
forbidden fruit, according to the word of God; and thus we see,
that by his fall, all mankind became a lost and fallen people.

Alma 12:23
 23 And now behold, I say unto you that if it had been possible
for Adam to have partaken of the fruit of the tree of life at
that time, there would have been no death, and the word would
have been void, making God a liar, for he said: If thou eat thou
shalt surely die.

Alma 12:24
 24 And we see that death comes upon mankind, yea, the death
which has been spoken of by Amulek, which is the temporal death;
nevertheless there was a space granted unto man in which he might
repent; therefore this life became a probationary state; a time
to prepare to meet God; a time to prepare for that endless state
which has been spoken of by us, which is after the resurrection
of the dead.

Alma 12:25
 25 Now, if it had not been for the plan of redemption, which was
laid from the foundation of the world, there could have been no
resurrection of the dead; but there was a plan of redemption
laid, which shall bring to pass the resurrection of the dead, of
which has been spoken.

Alma 12:26
 26 And now behold, if it were possible that our first parents
could have gone forth and partaken of the tree of life they would
have been forever miserable, having no preparatory state; and
thus the plan of redemption would have been frustrated, and the
word of God would have been void, taking none effect.

Alma 12:27
 27 But behold, it was not so; but it was appointed unto men that
they must die; and after death, they must come to judgment, even
that same judgment of which we have spoken, which is the end.

Alma 12:28
 28 And after God had appointed that these things should come
unto man, behold, then he saw that it was expedient that man
should know concerning the things whereof he had appointed unto
them;

Alma 12:29
 29 Therefore he sent angels to converse with them, who caused
men to behold of his glory.

Alma 12:30
 30 And they began from that time forth to call on his name;
therefore God conversed with men, and made known unto them the
plan of redemption, which had been prepared from the foundation
of the world; and this he made known unto them according to their
faith and repentance and their holy works.

Alma 12:31
 31 Wherefore, he gave commandments unto men, they having first
transgressed the first commandments as to things which were
temporal, and becoming as Gods, knowing good from evil, placing
themselves in a state to act, or being placed in a state to act
according to their wills and pleasures, whether to do evil or to
do good--

Alma 12:32
 32 Therefore God gave unto them commandments, after having made
known unto them the plan of redemption, that they should not do
evil, the penalty thereof being a second death, which was an
everlasting death as to things pertaining unto righteousness; for
on such the plan of redemption could have no power, for the works
of justice could not be destroyed, according to the supreme
goodness of God.

Alma 12:33
 33 But God did call on men, in the name of his Son, (this being
the plan of redemption which was laid) saying: If ye will repent
and harden not your hearts, then will I have mercy upon you,
through mine Only Begotten Son;

Alma 12:34
 34 Therefore, whosoever repenteth, and hardeneth not his heart,
he shall have claim on mercy through mine Only Begotten Son, unto
a remission of his sins; and these shall enter into my rest.

Alma 12:35
 35 And whosoever will harden his heart and will do iniquity,
behold, I swear in my wrath that he shall not enter into my rest.

Alma 12:36
 36 And now, my brethren, behold I say unto you, that if ye will
harden your hearts ye shall not enter into the rest of the Lord;
therefore your iniquity provoketh him that he sendeth down his
wrath upon you as in the first provocation, yea, according to his
word in the last provocation as well as the first, to the
everlasting destruction of your souls; therefore, according to
his word, unto the last death, as well as the first.

Alma 12:37
 37 And now, my brethren, seeing we know these things, and they
are true, let us repent, and harden not our hearts, that we
provoke not the Lord our God to pull down his wrath upon us in
these his second commandments which he has given unto us; but let
us enter into the rest of God, which is prepared according to his
word.

Alma 13
Chapter 13

Alma 13:1
 1 And again, my brethren, I would cite your minds forward to the
time when the Lord God gave these commandments unto his children;
and I would that ye should remember that the Lord God ordained
priests, after his holy order, which was after the order of his
Son, to teach these things unto the people.

Alma 13:2
 2 And those priests were ordained after the order of his Son, in
a manner that thereby the people might know in what manner to
look forward to his Son for redemption.

Alma 13:3
 3 And this is the manner after which they were ordained--being
called and prepared from the foundation of the world according to
the foreknowledge of God, on account of their exceeding faith and
good works; in the first place being left to choose good or evil;
therefore they having chosen good, and exercising exceedingly
great faith, are called with a holy calling, yea, with that holy
calling which was prepared with, and according to, a preparatory
redemption for such.

Alma 13:4
 4 And thus they have been called to this holy calling on account
of their faith, while others would reject the Spirit of God on
account of the hardness of their hearts and blindness of their
minds, while, if it had not been for this they might have had as
great privilege as their brethren.

Alma 13:5
 5 Or in fine, in the first place they were on the same standing
with their brethren; thus this holy calling being prepared from
the foundation of the world for such as would not harden their
hearts, being in and through the atonement of the Only Begotten
Son, who was prepared--

Alma 13:6
 6 And thus being called by this holy calling, and ordained unto
the high priesthood of the holy order of God, to teach his
commandments unto the children of men, that they also might enter
into his rest--

Alma 13:7
 7 This high priesthood being after the order of his Son, which
order was from the foundation of the world; or in other words,
being without beginning of days or end of years, being prepared
from eternity to all eternity, according to his foreknowledge of
all things--

Alma 13:8
 8 Now they were ordained after this manner--being called with a
holy calling, and ordained with a holy ordinance, and taking upon
them the high priesthood of the holy order, which calling, and
ordinance, and high priesthood, is without beginning or end--

Alma 13:9
 9 Thus they become high priests forever, after the order of the
Son, the Only Begotten of the Father, who is without beginning of
days or end of years, who is full of grace, equity, and truth. 
And thus it is.  Amen.

Alma 13:10
 10 Now, as I said concerning the holy order, or this high
priesthood, there were many who were ordained and became high
priests of God; and it was on account of their exceeding faith
and repentance, and their righteousness before God, they choosing
to repent and work righteousness rather than to perish;

Alma 13:11
 11 Therefore they were called after this holy order, and were
sanctified, and their garments were washed white through the
blood of the Lamb.

Alma 13:12
 12 Now they, after being sanctified by the Holy Ghost, having
their garments made white, being pure and spotless before God,
could not look upon sin save it were with abhorrence; and there
were many, exceedingly great many, who were made pure and entered
into the rest of the Lord their God.

Alma 13:13
 13 And now, my brethren, I would that ye should humble
yourselves before God, and bring forth fruit meet for repentance,
that ye may also enter into that rest.

Alma 13:14
 14 Yea, humble yourselves even as the people in the days of
Melchizedek, who was also a high priest after this same order
which I have spoken, who also took upon him the high priesthood
forever.

Alma 13:15
 15 And it was this same Melchizedek to whom Abraham paid tithes;
yea, even our father Abraham paid tithes of one-tenth part of all
he possessed.

Alma 13:16
 16 Now these ordinances were given after this manner, that
thereby the people might look forward on the Son of God, it being
a type of his order, or it being his order, and this that they
might look forward to him for a remission of their sins, that
they might enter into the rest of the Lord.

Alma 13:17
 17 Now this Melchizedek was a king over the land of Salem; and
his people had waxed strong in iniquity and abomination; yea,
they had all gone astray; they were full of all manner of
wickedness;

Alma 13:18
 18 But Melchizedek having exercised mighty faith, and received
the office of the high priesthood according to the holy order of
God, did preach repentance unto his people.  And behold, they did
repent; and Melchizedek did establish peace in the land in his
days; therefore he was called the prince of peace, for he was the
king of Salem; and he did reign under his father.

Alma 13:19
 19 Now, there were many before him, and also there were many
afterwards, but none were greater; therefore, of him they have
more particularly made mention.

Alma 13:20
 20 Now I need not rehearse the matter; what I have said may
suffice.  Behold, the scriptures are before you; if ye will wrest
them it shall be to your own destruction.

Alma 13:21
 21 And now it came to pass that when Alma had said these words
unto them, he stretched forth his hand unto them and cried with a
mighty voice, saying: Now is the time to repent, for the day of
salvation draweth nigh;

Alma 13:22
 22 Yea, and the voice of the Lord, by the mouth of angels, doth
declare it unto all nations; yea, doth declare it, that they may
have glad tidings of great joy; yea, and he doth sound these glad
tidings among all his people, yea, even to them that are
scattered abroad upon the face of the earth; wherefore they have
come unto us.

Alma 13:23
 23 And they are made known unto us in plain terms, that we may
understand, that we cannot err; and this because of our being
wanderers in a strange land; therefore, we are thus highly
favored, for we have these glad tidings declared unto us in all
parts of our vineyard.

Alma 13:24
 24 For behold, angels are declaring it unto many at this time in
our land; and this is for the purpose of preparing the hearts of
the children of men to receive his word at the time of his coming
in his glory.

Alma 13:25
 25 And now we only wait to hear the joyful news declared unto us
by the mouth of angels, of his coming; for the time cometh, we
know not how soon.  Would to God that it might be in my day; but
let it be sooner or later, in it I will rejoice.

Alma 13:26
 26 And it shall be made known unto just and holy men, by the
mouth of angels, at the time of his coming, that the words of our
fathers may be fulfilled, according to that which they have
spoken concerning him, which was according to the spirit of
prophecy which was in them.

Alma 13:27
 27 And now, my brethren, I wish from the inmost part of my
heart, yea, with great anxiety even unto pain, that ye would
hearken unto my words, and cast off your sins, and not
procrastinate the day of your repentance;

Alma 13:28
 28 But that ye would humble yourselves before the Lord, and call
on his holy name, and watch and pray continually, that ye may not
be tempted above that which ye can bear, and thus be led by the
Holy Spirit, becoming humble, meek, submissive, patient, full of
love and all long-suffering;

Alma 13:29
 29 Having faith on the Lord; having a hope that ye shall receive
eternal life; having the love of God always in your hearts, that
ye may be lifted up at the last day and enter into his rest.

Alma 13:30
 30 And may the Lord grant unto you repentance, that ye may not
bring down his wrath upon you, that ye may not be bound down by
the chains of hell, that ye may not suffer the second death.



The Spirit constraineth me that I
must not stretch forth mine hand; for behold the Lord receiveth
them up unto himself, in glory; and he doth suffer that they may
do this thing, or that the people may do this thing unto them,
according to the hardness of their hearts, that the judgments
which he shall exercise upon them in his wrath may be just; and
the blood of the innocent shall stand as a witness against them,
yea, and cry mightily against them at the last day.


Be it according to the will of the Lord.  But,
behold, our work is not finished; therefore they burn us not.



How long shall we suffer these great
afflictions, O Lord?  O Lord, give us strength according to our
faith which is in Christ, even unto deliverance.

Believest thou in the power of Christ unto salvation?


If thou believest in the redemption of Christ
thou canst be healed.


O Lord our God,
have mercy on this man, and heal him according to his faith which
is in Christ.



Behold, the
Lamanites will cross the river Sidon in the south wilderness,
away up beyond the borders of the land of Manti.  And behold
there shall ye meet them, on the east of the river Sidon, and
there the Lord will deliver unto thee thy brethren who have been
taken captive by the Lamanites.



Alma 29
Chapter 29

Alma 29:1
 1 O that I were an angel, and could have the wish of mine heart,
that I might go forth and speak with the trump of God, with a
voice to shake the earth, and cry repentance unto every people!

Alma 29:2
 2 Yea, I would declare unto every soul, as with the voice of
thunder, repentance and the plan of redemption, that they should
repent and come unto our God, that there might not be more sorrow
upon all the face of the earth.

Alma 29:3
 3 But behold, I am a man, and do sin in my wish; for I ought to
be content with the things which the Lord hath allotted unto me.

Alma 29:4
 4 I ought not to harrow up in my desires, the firm decree of a
just God, for I know that he granteth unto men according to their
desire, whether it be unto death or unto life; yea, I know that
he allotteth unto men, yea, decreeth unto them decrees which are
unalterable, according to their wills, whether they be unto
salvation or unto destruction.

Alma 29:5
 5 Yea, and I know that good and evil have come before all men;
he that knoweth not good from evil is blameless; but he that
knoweth good and evil, to him it is given according to his
desires, whether he desireth good or evil, life or death, joy or
remorse of conscience.

Alma 29:6
 6 Now, seeing that I know these things, why should I desire more
than to perform the work to which I have been called?

Alma 29:7
 7 Why should I desire that I were an angel, that I could speak
unto all the ends of the earth?

Alma 29:8
 8 For behold, the Lord doth grant unto all nations, of their own
nation and tongue, to teach his word, yea, in wisdom, all that he
seeth fit that they should have; therefore we see that the Lord
doth counsel in wisdom, according to that which is just and true.

Alma 29:9
 9 I know that which the Lord hath commanded me, and I glory in
it.  I do not glory of myself, but I glory in that which the Lord
hath commanded me; yea, and this is my glory, that perhaps I may
be an instrument in the hands of God to bring some soul to
repentance; and this is my joy.

Alma 29:10
 10 And behold, when I see many of my brethren truly penitent,
and coming to the Lord their God, then is my soul filled with
joy; then do I remember what the Lord has done for me, yea, even
that he hath heard my prayer; yea, then do I remember his
merciful arm which he extended towards me.

Alma 29:11
 11 Yea, and I also remember the captivity of my fathers; for I
surely do know that the Lord did deliver them out of bondage, and
by this did establish his church; yea, the Lord God, the God of
Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, did deliver them
out of bondage.

Alma 29:12
 12 Yea, I have always remembered the captivity of my fathers;
and that same God who delivered them out of the hands of the
Egyptians did deliver them out of bondage.

Alma 29:13
 13 Yea, and that same God did establish his church among them;
yea, and that same God hath called me by a holy calling, to
preach the word unto this people, and hath given me much success,
in the which my joy is full.

Alma 29:14
 14 But I do not joy in my own success alone, but my joy is more
full because of the success of my brethren, who have been up to
the land of Nephi.

Alma 29:15
 15 Behold, they have labored exceedingly, and have brought forth
much fruit; and how great shall be their reward!

Alma 29:16
 16 Now, when I think of the success of these my brethren my soul
is carried away, even to the separation of it from the body, as
it were, so great is my joy.

Alma 29:17
 17 And now may God grant unto these, my brethren, that they may
sit down in the kingdom of God; yea, and also all those who are
the fruit of their labors that they may go no more out, but that
they may praise him forever.  And may God grant that it may be
done according to my words, even as I have spoken.  Amen.

Thou knowest that we do not glut
ourselves upon the labors of this people; for behold I have
labored even from the commencement of the reign of the judges
until now, with mine own hands for my support, notwithstanding my
many travels round about the land to declare the word of God unto
my people.

Alma 30:33
 33 And notwithstanding the many labors which I have performed in
the church, I have never received so much as even one senine for
my labor; neither has any of my brethren, save it were in the
judgment-seat; and then we have received only according to law
for our time.

Alma 30:34
 34 And now, if we do not receive anything for our labors in the
church, what doth it profit us to labor in the church save it
were to declare the truth, that we may have rejoicings in the joy
of our brethren?

Alma 30:35
 35 Then why sayest thou that we preach unto this people to get
gain, when thou, of thyself, knowest that we receive no gain? 
And now, believest thou that we deceive this people, that causes
such joy in their hearts?

 Believest thou that there is a
God?

Will ye deny again that there is a
God, and also deny the Christ?  For behold, I say unto you, I
know there is a God, and also that Christ shall come.

Alma 30:40
 40 And now what evidence have ye that there is no God, or that
Christ cometh not?  I say unto you that ye have none, save it be
your word only.

Alma 30:41
 41 But, behold, I have all things as a testimony that these
things are true; and ye also have all things as a testimony unto
you that they are true; and will ye deny them?  Believest thou
that these things are true?

Alma 30:42
 42 Behold, I know that thou believest, but thou art possessed
with a lying spirit, and ye have put off the Spirit of God that
it may have no place in you; but the devil has power over you,
and he doth carry you about, working devices that he may destroy
the children of God.

Thou hast had signs enough; will ye
tempt your God?  Will ye say, Show unto me a sign, when ye have
the testimony of all these thy brethren, and also all the holy
prophets?  The scriptures are laid before thee, yea, and all
things denote there is a God; yea, even the earth, and all things
that are upon the face of it, yea, and its motion, yea, and also
all the planets which move in their regular form do witness that
there is a Supreme Creator.

Alma 30:45
 45 And yet do ye go about, leading away the hearts of this
people, testifying unto them there is no God?  And yet will ye
deny against all these witnesses?

Behold, I am
grieved because of the hardness of your heart, yea, that ye will
still resist the spirit of the truth, that thy soul may be
destroyed.

Alma 30:47
 47 But behold, it is better that thy soul should be lost than
that thou shouldst be the means of bringing many souls down to
destruction, by thy lying and by thy flattering words; therefore
if thou shalt deny again, behold God shall smite thee, that thou
shalt become dumb, that thou shalt never open thy mouth any more,
that thou shalt not deceive this people any more.

This will I give unto thee for a
sign, that thou shalt be struck dumb, according to my words; and
I say, that in the name of God, ye shall be struck dumb, that ye
shall no more have utterance.

If this curse should be taken from
thee thou wouldst again lead away the hearts of this people;
therefore, it shall be unto thee even as the Lord will.


O,
how long, O Lord, wilt thou suffer that thy servants shall dwell
here below in the flesh, to behold such gross wickedness among
the children of men?

Alma 31:27
 27 Behold, O God, they cry unto thee, and yet their hearts are
swallowed up in their pride.  Behold, O God, they cry unto thee
with their mouths, while they are puffed up, even to greatness,
with the vain things of the world.

Alma 31:28
 28 Behold, O my God, their costly apparel, and their ringlets,
and their bracelets, and their ornaments of gold, and all their
precious things which they are ornamented with; and behold, their
hearts are set upon them, and yet they cry unto thee and say--We
thank thee, O God, for we are a chosen people unto thee, while
others shall perish.

Alma 31:29
 29 Yea, and they say that thou hast made it known unto them that
there shall be no Christ.

Alma 31:30
 30 O Lord God, how long wilt thou suffer that such wickedness
and infidelity shall be among this people?  O Lord, wilt thou
give me strength, that I may bear with mine infirmities.  For I
am infirm, and such wickedness among this people doth pain my
soul.

Alma 31:31
 31 O Lord, my heart is exceedingly sorrowful; wilt thou comfort
my soul in Christ.  O Lord, wilt thou grant unto me that I may
have strength, that I may suffer with patience these afflictions
which shall come upon me, because of the iniquity of this people.

Alma 31:32
 32 O Lord, wilt thou comfort my soul, and give unto me success,
and also my fellow laborers who are with me--yea, Ammon, and
Aaron, and Omner, and also Amulek and Zeezrom and also my two
sons--yea, even all these wilt thou comfort, O Lord.  Yea, wilt
thou comfort their souls in Christ.

Alma 31:33
 33 Wilt thou grant unto them that they may have strength, that
they may bear their afflictions which shall come upon them
because of the iniquities of this people.

Alma 31:34
 34 O Lord, wilt thou grant unto us that we may have success in
bringing them again unto thee in Christ.

Alma 31:35
 35 Behold, O Lord, their souls are precious, and many of them
are our brethren; therefore, give unto us, O Lord, power and
wisdom that we may bring these, our brethren, again unto thee.


Alma 32:8
 8 I behold that ye are lowly in heart; and if so, blessed are
ye.

Alma 32:9
 9 Behold thy brother hath said, What shall we do?--for we are
cast out of our synagogues, that we cannot worship our God.

Alma 32:10
 10 Behold I say unto you, do ye suppose that ye cannot worship
God save it be in your synagogues only?

Alma 32:11
 11 Moreover, I would ask, do ye suppose that ye must not worship
God only once in a week?

Alma 32:12
 12 I say unto you, it is well that ye are cast out of your
synagogues, that ye may be humble, and that ye may learn wisdom;
for it is necessary that ye should learn wisdom; for it is
because that ye are cast out, that ye are despised of your
brethren because of your exceeding poverty, that ye are brought
to a lowliness of heart; for ye are necessarily brought to be
humble.

Alma 32:13
 13 And now, because ye are compelled to be humble blessed are
ye; for a man sometimes, if he is compelled to be humble, seeketh
repentance; and now surely, whosoever repenteth shall find mercy;
and he that findeth mercy and endureth to the end the same shall
be saved.

Alma 32:14
 14 And now, as I said unto you, that because ye were compelled
to be humble ye were blessed, do ye not suppose that they are
more blessed who truly humble themselves because of the word?

Alma 32:15
 15 Yea, he that truly humbleth himself, and repenteth of his
sins, and endureth to the end, the same shall be blessed--yea,
much more blessed than they who are compelled to be humble
because of their exceeding poverty.

Alma 32:16
 16 Therefore, blessed are they who humble themselves without
being compelled to be humble; or rather, in other words, blessed
is he that believeth in the word of God, and is baptized without
stubbornness of heart, yea, without being brought to know the
word, or even compelled to know, before they will believe.

Alma 32:17
 17 Yea, there are many who do say: If thou wilt show unto us a
sign from heaven, then we shall know of a surety; then we shall
believe.

Alma 32:18
 18 Now I ask, is this faith?  Behold, I say unto you, Nay; for
if a man knoweth a thing he hath no cause to believe, for he
knoweth it.

Alma 32:19
 19 And now, how much more cursed is he that knoweth the will of
God and doeth it not, than he that only believeth, or only hath
cause to believe, and falleth into transgression?

Alma 32:20
 20 Now of this thing ye must judge.  Behold, I say unto you,
that it is on the one hand even as it is on the other; and it
shall be unto every man according to his work.

Alma 32:21
 21 And now as I said concerning faith--faith is not to have a
perfect knowledge of things; therefore if ye have faith ye hope
for things which are not seen, which are true.

Alma 32:22
 22 And now, behold, I say unto you, and I would that ye should
remember, that God is merciful unto all who believe on his name;
therefore he desireth, in the first place, that ye should
believe, yea, even on his word.

Alma 32:23
 23 And now, he imparteth his word by angels unto men, yea, not
only men but women also.  Now this is not all; little children do
have words given unto them many times which confound the wise and
the learned.

Alma 32:24
 24 And now, my beloved brethren, as ye have desired to know of
me what ye shall do because ye are afflicted and cast out--now I
do not desire that ye should suppose that I mean to judge you
only according to that which is true--

Alma 32:25
 25 For I do not mean that ye all of you have been compelled to
humble yourselves; for I verily believe that there are some among
you who would humble themselves, let them be in whatsoever
circumstances they might.

Alma 32:26
 26 Now, as I said concerning faith--that it was not a perfect
knowledge--even so it is with my words.  Ye cannot know of their
surety at first, unto perfection, any more than faith is a
perfect knowledge.

Alma 32:27
 27 But behold, if ye will awake and arouse your faculties, even
to an experiment upon my words, and exercise a particle of faith,
yea, even if ye can no more than desire to believe, let this
desire work in you, even until ye believe in a manner that ye can
give place for a portion of my words.

Alma 32:28
 28 Now, we will compare the word unto a seed.  Now, if ye give
place, that a seed may be planted in your heart, behold, if it be
a true seed, or a good seed, if ye do not cast it out by your
unbelief, that ye will resist the Spirit of the Lord, behold, it
will begin to swell within your breasts; and when you feel these
swelling motions, ye will begin to say within yourselves--It must
needs be that this is a good seed, or that the word is good, for
it beginneth to enlarge my soul; yea, it beginneth to enlighten
my understanding, yea, it beginneth to be delicious to me.

Alma 32:29
 29 Now behold, would not this increase your faith?  I say unto
you, Yea; nevertheless it hath not grown up to a perfect
knowledge.

Alma 32:30
 30 But behold, as the seed swelleth, and sprouteth, and
beginneth to grow, then you must needs say that the seed is good;
for behold it swelleth, and sprouteth, and beginneth to grow. 
And now behold, will not this strengthen your faith?  Yea, it
will strengthen your faith: for ye will say I know that this is a
good seed; for behold it sprouteth and beginneth to grow.

Alma 32:31
 31 And now, behold, are ye sure that this is a good seed?  I say
unto you, Yea; for every seed bringeth forth unto its own
likeness.

Alma 32:32
 32 Therefore, if a seed groweth it is good, but if it groweth
not, behold it is not good, therefore it is cast away.

Alma 32:33
 33 And now, behold, because ye have tried the experiment, and
planted the seed, and it swelleth and sprouteth, and beginneth to
grow, ye must needs know that the seed is good.

Alma 32:34
 34 And now, behold, is your knowledge perfect?  Yea, your
knowledge is perfect in that thing, and your faith is dormant;
and this because ye know, for ye know that the word hath swelled
your souls, and ye also know that it hath sprouted up, that your
understanding doth begin to be enlightened, and your mind doth
begin to expand.

Alma 32:35
 35 O then, is not this real?  I say unto you, Yea, because it is
light; and whatsoever is light, is good, because it is
discernible, therefore ye must know that it is good; and now
behold, after ye have tasted this light is your knowledge
perfect?

Alma 32:36
 36 Behold I say unto you, Nay; neither must ye lay aside your
faith, for ye have only exercised your faith to plant the seed
that ye might try the experiment to know if the seed was good.

Alma 32:37
 37 And behold, as the tree beginneth to grow, ye will say: Let
us nourish it with great care, that it may get root, that it may
grow up, and bring forth fruit unto us.  And now behold, if ye
nourish it with much care it will get root, and grow up, and
bring forth fruit.

Alma 32:38
 38 But if ye neglect the tree, and take no thought for its
nourishment, behold it will not get any root; and when the heat
of the sun cometh and scorcheth it, because it hath no root it
withers away, and ye pluck it up and cast it out.

Alma 32:39
 39 Now, this is not because the seed was not good, neither is it
because the fruit thereof would not be desirable; but it is
because your ground is barren, and ye will not nourish the tree,
therefore ye cannot have the fruit thereof.

Alma 32:40
 40 And thus, if ye will not nourish the word, looking forward
with an eye of faith to the fruit thereof, ye can never pluck of
the fruit of the tree of life.

Alma 32:41
 41 But if ye will nourish the word, yea, nourish the tree as it
beginneth to grow, by your faith with great diligence, and with
patience, looking forward to the fruit thereof, it shall take
root; and behold it shall be a tree springing up unto everlasting
life.

Alma 32:42
 42 And because of your diligence and your faith and your
patience with the word in nourishing it, that it may take root in
you, behold, by and by ye shall pluck the fruit thereof, which is
most precious, which is sweet above all that is sweet, and which
is white above all that is white, yea, and pure above all that is
pure; and ye shall feast upon this fruit even until ye are
filled, that ye hunger not, neither shall ye thirst.

Alma 32:43
 43 Then, my brethren, ye shall reap the rewards of your faith,
and your diligence, and patience, and long-suffering, waiting for
the tree to bring forth fruit unto you.


Do ye believe those scriptures
which have been written by them of old?

Alma 33:13
 13 Behold, if ye do, ye must believe what Zenos said; for,
behold he said: Thou hast turned away thy judgments because of
thy Son.

Alma 33:14
 14 Now behold, my brethren, I would ask if ye have read the
scriptures?  If ye have, how can ye disbelieve on the Son of God?

Alma 33:15
 15 For it is not written that Zenos alone spake of these things,
but Zenock also spake of these things--

Alma 33:16
 16 For behold, he said: Thou art angry, O Lord, with this
people, because they will not understand thy mercies which thou
hast bestowed upon them because of thy Son.

Alma 33:17
 17 And now, my brethren, ye see that a second prophet of old has
testified of the Son of God, and because the people would not
understand his words they stoned him to death.

Alma 33:18
 18 But behold, this is not all; these are not the only ones who
have spoken concerning the Son of God.

Alma 33:19
 19 Behold, he was spoken of by Moses; yea, and behold a type was
raised up in the wilderness, that whosoever would look upon it
might live.  And many did look and live.

Alma 33:20
 20 But few understood the meaning of those things, and this
because of the hardness of their hearts.  But there were many who
were so hardened that they would not look, therefore they
perished.  Now the reason they would not look is because they did
not believe that it would heal them.

Alma 33:21
 21 O my brethren, if ye could be healed by merely casting about
your eyes that ye might be healed, would ye not behold quickly,
or would ye rather harden your hearts in unbelief, and be
slothful, that ye would not cast about your eyes, that ye might
perish?

Alma 33:22
 22 If so, wo shall come upon you; but if not so, then cast about
your eyes and begin to believe in the Son of God, that he will
come to redeem his people, and that he shall suffer and die to
atone for their sins; and that he shall rise again from the dead,
which shall bring to pass the resurrection, that all men shall
stand before him, to be judged at the last and judgment day,
according to their works.

Alma 33:23
 23 And now, my brethren, I desire that ye shall plant this word
in your hearts, and as it beginneth to swell even so nourish it
by your faith.  And behold, it will become a tree, springing up
in you unto everlasting life.  And then may God grant unto you
that your burdens may be light, through the joy of his Son.  And
even all this can ye do if ye will.  Amen.



Alma 36
Chapter 36

Alma 36:1
 1 My son, give ear to my words; for I swear unto you, that
inasmuch as ye shall keep the commandments of God ye shall
prosper in the land.

Alma 36:2
 2 I would that ye should do as I have done, in remembering the
captivity of our fathers; for they were in bondage, and none
could deliver them except it was the God of Abraham, and the God
of Isaac, and the God of Jacob; and he surely did deliver them in
their afflictions.

Alma 36:3
 3 And now, O my son Helaman, behold, thou art in thy youth, and
therefore, I beseech of thee that thou wilt hear my words and
learn of me; for I do know that whosoever shall put their trust
in God shall be supported in their trials, and their troubles,
and their afflictions, and shall be lifted up at the last day.

Alma 36:4
 4 And I would not that ye think that I know of myself--not of
the temporal but of the spiritual, not of the carnal mind but of
God.

Alma 36:5
 5 Now, behold, I say unto you, if I had not been born of God I
should not have known these things; but God has, by the mouth of
his holy angel, made these things known unto me, not of any
worthiness of myself.

Alma 36:6
 6 For I went about with the sons of Mosiah, seeking to destroy
the church of God; but behold, God sent his holy angel to stop us
by the way.

Alma 36:7
 7 And behold, he spake unto us, as it were the voice of thunder,
and the whole earth did tremble beneath our feet; and we all fell
to the earth, for the fear of the Lord came upon us.

Alma 36:8
 8 But behold, the voice said unto me: Arise.  And I arose and
stood up, and beheld the angel.

Alma 36:9
 9 And he said unto me: If thou wilt of thyself be destroyed,
seek no more to destroy the church of God.

Alma 36:10
 10 And it came to pass that I fell to the earth; and it was for
the space of three days and three nights that I could not open my
mouth, neither had I the use of my limbs.

Alma 36:11
 11 And the angel spake more things unto me, which were heard by
my brethren, but I did not hear them; for when I heard the
words--If thou wilt be destroyed of thyself, seek no more to
destroy the church of God--I was struck with such great fear and
amazement lest perhaps I should be destroyed, that I fell to the
earth and I did hear no more.

Alma 36:12
 12 But I was racked with eternal torment, for my soul was
harrowed up to the greatest degree and racked with all my sins.

Alma 36:13
 13 Yea, I did remember all my sins and iniquities, for which I
was tormented with the pains of hell; yea, I saw that I had
rebelled against my God, and that I had not kept his holy
commandments.

Alma 36:14
 14 Yea, and I had murdered many of his children, or rather led
them away unto destruction; yea, and in fine so great had been my
iniquities, that the very thought of coming into the presence of
my God did rack my soul with inexpressible horror.

Alma 36:15
 15 Oh, thought I, that I could be banished and become extinct
both soul and body, that I might not be brought to stand in the
presence of my God, to be judged of my deeds.

Alma 36:16
 16 And now, for three days and for three nights was I racked,
even with the pains of a damned soul.

Alma 36:17
 17 And it came to pass that as I was thus racked with torment,
while I was harrowed up by the memory of my many sins, behold, I
remembered also to have heard my father prophesy unto the people
concerning the coming of one Jesus Christ, a Son of God, to atone
for the sins of the world.

Alma 36:18
 18 Now, as my mind caught hold upon this thought, I cried within
my heart: O Jesus, thou Son of God, have mercy on me, who am in
the gall of bitterness, and am encircled about by the everlasting
chains of death.

Alma 36:19
 19 And now, behold, when I thought this, I could remember my
pains no more; yea, I was harrowed up by the memory of my sins no
more.

Alma 36:20
 20 And oh, what joy, and what marvelous light I did behold; yea,
my soul was filled with joy as exceeding as was my pain!

Alma 36:21
 21 Yea, I say unto you, my son, that there could be nothing so
exquisite and so bitter as were my pains.  Yea, and again I say
unto you, my son, that on the other hand, there can be nothing so
exquisite and sweet as was my joy.

Alma 36:22
 22 Yea, methought I saw, even as our father Lehi saw, God
sitting upon his throne, surrounded with numberless concourses of
angels, in the attitude of singing and praising their God; yea,
and my soul did long to be there.

Alma 36:23
 23 But behold, my limbs did receive their strength again, and I
stood upon my feet, and did manifest unto the people that I had
been born of God.

Alma 36:24
 24 Yea, and from that time even until now, I have labored
without ceasing, that I might bring souls unto repentance; that I
might bring them to taste of the exceeding joy of which I did
taste; that they might also be born of God, and be filled with
the Holy Ghost.

Alma 36:25
 25 Yea, and now behold, O my son, the Lord doth give me
exceedingly great joy in the fruit of my labors;

Alma 36:26
 26 For because of the word which he has imparted unto me,
behold, many have been born of God, and have tasted as I have
tasted, and have seen eye to eye as I have seen; therefore they
do know of these things of which I have spoken, as I do know; and
the knowledge which I have is of God.

Alma 36:27
 27 And I have been supported under trials and troubles of every
kind, yea, and in all manner of afflictions; yea, God has
delivered me from prison, and from bonds, and from death; yea,
and I do put my trust in him, and he will still deliver me.

Alma 36:28
 28 And I know that he will raise me up at the last day, to dwell
with him in glory; yea, and I will praise him forever, for he has
brought our fathers out of Egypt, and he has swallowed up the
Egyptians in the Red Sea; and he led them by his power into the
promised land; yea, and he has delivered them out of bondage and
captivity from time to time.

Alma 36:29
 29 Yea, and he has also brought our fathers out of the land of
Jerusalem; and he has also, by his everlasting power, delivered
them out of bondage and captivity, from time to time even down to
the present day; and I have always retained in remembrance their
captivity; yea, and ye also ought to retain in remembrance, as I
have done, their captivity.

Alma 36:30
 30 But behold, my son, this is not all; for ye ought to know as
I do know, that inasmuch as ye shall keep the commandments of God
ye shall prosper in the land; and ye ought to know also, that
inasmuch as ye will not keep the commandments of God ye shall be
cut off from his presence.  Now this is according to his word.

Alma 37
Chapter 37

Alma 37:1
 1 And now, my son Helaman, I command you that ye take the
records which have been entrusted with me;

Alma 37:2
 2 And I also command you that ye keep a record of this people,
according as I have done, upon the plates of Nephi, and keep all
these things sacred which I have kept, even as I have kept them;
for it is for a wise purpose that they are kept.

Alma 37:3
 3 And these plates of brass, which contain these engravings,
which have the records of the holy scriptures upon them, which
have the genealogy of our forefathers, even from the beginning--

Alma 37:4
 4 Behold, it has been prophesied by our fathers, that they
should be kept and handed down from one generation to another,
and be kept and preserved by the hand of the Lord until they
should go forth unto every nation, kindred, tongue, and people,
that they shall know of the mysteries contained thereon.

Alma 37:5
 5 And now behold, if they are kept they must retain their
brightness; yea, and they will retain their brightness; yea, and
also shall all the plates which do contain that which is holy
writ.

Alma 37:6
 6 Now ye may suppose that this is foolishness in me; but behold
I say unto you, that by small and simple things are great things
brought to pass; and small means in many instances doth confound
the wise.

Alma 37:7
 7 And the Lord God doth work by means to bring about his great
and eternal purposes; and by very small means the Lord doth
confound the wise and bringeth about the salvation of many souls.

Alma 37:8
 8 And now, it has hitherto been wisdom in God that these things
should be preserved; for behold, they have enlarged the memory of
this people, yea, and convinced many of the error of their ways,
and brought them to the knowledge of their God unto the salvation
of their souls.

Alma 37:9
 9 Yea, I say unto you, were it not for these things that these
records do contain, which are on these plates, Ammon and his
brethren could not have convinced so many thousands of the
Lamanites of the incorrect tradition of their fathers; yea, these
records and their words brought them unto repentance; that is,
they brought them to the knowledge of the Lord their God, and to
rejoice in Jesus Christ their Redeemer.

Alma 37:10
 10 And who knoweth but what they will be the means of bringing
many thousands of them, yea, and also many thousands of our
stiffnecked brethren, the Nephites, who are now hardening their
hearts in sin and iniquities, to the knowledge of their Redeemer?

Alma 37:11
 11 Now these mysteries are not yet fully made known unto me;
therefore I shall forbear.

Alma 37:12
 12 And it may suffice if I only say they are preserved for a
wise purpose, which purpose is known unto God; for he doth
counsel in wisdom over all his works, and his paths are straight,
and his course is one eternal round.

Alma 37:13
 13 O remember, remember, my son Helaman, how strict are the
commandments of God.  And he said: If ye will keep my
commandments ye shall prosper in the land--but if ye keep not his
commandments ye shall be cut off from his presence.

Alma 37:14
 14 And now remember, my son, that God has entrusted you with
these things, which are sacred, which he has kept sacred, and
also which he will keep and preserve for a wise purpose in him,
that he may show forth his power unto future generations.

Alma 37:15
 15 And now behold, I tell you by the spirit of prophecy, that if
ye transgress the commandments of God, behold, these things which
are sacred shall be taken away from you by the power of God, and
ye shall be delivered up unto Satan, that he may sift you as
chaff before the wind.

Alma 37:16
 16 But if ye keep the commandments of God, and do with these
things which are sacred according to that which the Lord doth
command you, (for you must appeal unto the Lord for all things
whatsoever ye must do with them) behold, no power of earth or
hell can take them from you, for God is powerful to the
fulfilling of all his words.

Alma 37:17
 17 For he will fulfil all his promises which he shall make unto
you, for he has fulfilled his promises which he has made unto our
fathers.

Alma 37:18
 18 For he promised unto them that he would preserve these things
for a wise purpose in him, that he might show forth his power
unto future generations.

Alma 37:19
 19 And now behold, one purpose hath he fulfilled, even to the
restoration of many thousands of the Lamanites to the knowledge
of the truth; and he hath shown forth his power in them, and he
will also still show forth his power in them unto future
generations; therefore they shall be preserved.

Alma 37:20
 20 Therefore I command you, my son Helaman, that ye be diligent
in fulfilling all my words, and that ye be diligent in keeping
the commandments of God as they are written.

Alma 37:21
 21 And now, I will speak unto you concerning those twenty-four
plates, that ye keep them, that the mysteries and the works of
darkness, and their secret works, or the secret works of those
people who have been destroyed, may be made manifest unto this
people; yea, all their murders, and robbings, and their
plunderings, and all their wickedness and abominations, may be
made manifest unto this people; yea, and that ye preserve these
interpreters.

Alma 37:22
 22 For behold, the Lord saw that his people began to work in
darkness, yea, work secret murders and abominations; therefore
the Lord said, if they did not repent they should be destroyed
from off the face of the earth.

Alma 37:23
 23 And the Lord said: I will prepare unto my servant Gazelem, a
stone, which shall shine forth in darkness unto light, that I may
discover unto my people who serve me, that I may discover unto
them the works of their brethren, yea, their secret works, their
works of darkness, and their wickedness and abominations.

Alma 37:24
 24 And now, my son, these interpreters were prepared that the
word of God might be fulfilled, which he spake, saying:

Alma 37:25
 25 I will bring forth out of darkness unto light all their
secret works and their abominations; and except they repent I
will destroy them from off the face of the earth; and I will
bring to light all their secrets and abominations, unto every
nation that shall hereafter possess the land.

Alma 37:26
 26 And now, my son, we see that they did not repent; therefore
they have been destroyed, and thus far the word of God has been
fulfilled; yea, their secret abominations have been brought out
of darkness and made known unto us.

Alma 37:27
 27 And now, my son, I command you that ye retain all their
oaths, and their covenants, and their agreements in their secret
abominations; yea, and all their signs and their wonders ye shall
keep from this people, that they know them not, lest peradventure
they should fall into darkness also and be destroyed.

Alma 37:28
 28 For behold, there is a curse upon all this land, that
destruction shall come upon all those workers of darkness,
according to the power of God, when they are fully ripe;
therefore I desire that this people might not be destroyed.

Alma 37:29
 29 Therefore ye shall keep these secret plans of their oaths and
their covenants from this people, and only their wickedness and
their murders and their abominations shall ye make known unto
them; and ye shall teach them to abhor such wickedness and
abominations and murders; and ye shall also teach them that these
people were destroyed on account of their wickedness and
abominations and their murders.

Alma 37:30
 30 For behold, they murdered all the prophets of the Lord who
came among them to declare unto them concerning their iniquities;
and the blood of those whom they murdered did cry unto the Lord
their God for vengeance upon those who were their murderers; and
thus the judgments of God did come upon these workers of darkness
and secret combinations.

Alma 37:31
 31 Yea, and cursed be the land forever and ever unto those
workers of darkness and secret combinations, even unto
destruction, except they repent before they are fully ripe.

Alma 37:32
 32 And now, my son, remember the words which I have spoken unto
you; trust not those secret plans unto this people, but teach
them an everlasting hatred against sin and iniquity.

Alma 37:33
 33 Preach unto them repentance, and faith on the Lord Jesus
Christ; teach them to humble themselves and to be meek and lowly
in heart; teach them to withstand every temptation of the devil,
with their faith on the Lord Jesus Christ.

Alma 37:34
 34 Teach them to never be weary of good works, but to be meek
and lowly in heart; for such shall find rest to their souls.

Alma 37:35
 35 O, remember, my son, and learn wisdom in thy youth; yea,
learn in thy youth to keep the commandments of God.

Alma 37:36
 36 Yea, and cry unto God for all thy support; yea, let all thy
doings be unto the Lord, and whithersoever thou goest let it be
in the Lord; yea, let all thy thoughts be directed unto the Lord;
yea, let the affections of thy heart be placed upon the Lord
forever.

Alma 37:37
 37 Counsel with the Lord in all thy doings, and he will direct
thee for good; yea, when thou liest down at night lie down unto
the Lord, that he may watch over you in your sleep; and when thou
risest in the morning let thy heart be full of thanks unto God;
and if ye do these things, ye shall be lifted up at the last day.

Alma 37:38
 38 And now, my son, I have somewhat to say concerning the thing
which our fathers call a ball, or director--or our fathers called
it Liahona, which is, being interpreted, a compass; and the Lord
prepared it.

Alma 37:39
 39 And behold, there cannot any man work after the manner of so
curious a workmanship.  And behold, it was prepared to show unto
our fathers the course which they should travel in the
wilderness.

Alma 37:40
 40 And it did work for them according to their faith in God;
therefore, if they had faith to believe that God could cause that
those spindles should point the way they should go, behold, it
was done; therefore they had this miracle, and also many other
miracles wrought by the power of God, day by day.

Alma 37:41
 41 Nevertheless, because those miracles were worked by small
means it did show unto them marvelous works.  They were slothful,
and forgot to exercise their faith and diligence and then those
marvelous works ceased, and they did not progress in their
journey;

Alma 37:42
 42 Therefore, they tarried in the wilderness, or did not travel
a direct course, and were afflicted with hunger and thirst,
because of their transgressions.

Alma 37:43
 43 And now, my son, I would that ye should understand that these
things are not without a shadow; for as our fathers were slothful
to give heed to this compass (now these things were temporal)
they did not prosper; even so it is with things which are
spiritual.

Alma 37:44
 44 For behold, it is as easy to give heed to the word of Christ,
which will point to you a straight course to eternal bliss, as it
was for our fathers to give heed to this compass, which would
point unto them a straight course to the promised land.

Alma 37:45
 45 And now I say, is there not a type in this thing?  For just
as surely as this director did bring our fathers, by following
its course, to the promised land, shall the words of Christ, if
we follow their course, carry us beyond this vale of sorrow into
a far better land of promise.

Alma 37:46
 46 O my son, do not let us be slothful because of the easiness
of the way; for so was it with our fathers; for so was it
prepared for them, that if they would look they might live; even
so it is with us.  The way is prepared, and if we will look we
may live forever.

Alma 37:47
 47 And now, my son, see that ye take care of these sacred
things, yea, see that ye look to God and live.  Go unto this
people and declare the word, and be sober.  My son, farewell.

Alma 38
Chapter 38

Alma 38:1
 1 My son, give ear to my words, for I say unto you, even as I
said unto Helaman, that inasmuch as ye shall keep the
commandments of God ye shall prosper in the land; and inasmuch as
ye will not keep the commandments of God ye shall be cut off from
his presence.

Alma 38:2
 2 And now, my son, I trust that I shall have great joy in you,
because of your steadiness and your faithfulness unto God; for as
you have commenced in your youth to look to the Lord your God,
even so I hope that you will continue in keeping his
commandments; for blessed is he that endureth to the end.

Alma 38:3
 3 I say unto you, my son, that I have had great joy in thee
already, because of thy faithfulness and thy diligence, and thy
patience and thy long-suffering among the people of the
Zoramites.

Alma 38:4
 4 For I know that thou wast in bonds; yea, and I also know that
thou wast stoned for the word's sake; and thou didst bear all
these things with patience because the Lord was with thee; and
now thou knowest that the Lord did deliver thee.

Alma 38:5
 5 And now my son, Shiblon, I would that ye should remember, that
as much as ye shall put your trust in God even so much ye shall
be delivered out of your trials, and your troubles, and your
afflictions, and ye shall be lifted up at the last day.

Alma 38:6
 6 Now, my son, I would not that ye should think that I know
these things of myself, but it is the Spirit of God which is in
me which maketh these things known unto me; for if I had not been
born of God I should not have known these things.

Alma 38:7
 7 But behold, the Lord in his great mercy sent his angel to
declare unto me that I must stop the work of destruction among
his people; yea, and I have seen an angel face to face, and he
spake with me, and his voice was as thunder, and it shook the
whole earth.

Alma 38:8
 8 And it came to pass that I was three days and three nights in
the most bitter pain and anguish of soul; and never, until I did
cry out unto the Lord Jesus Christ for mercy, did I receive a
remission of my sins.  But behold, I did cry unto him and I did
find peace to my soul.

Alma 38:9
 9 And now, my son, I have told you this that ye may learn
wisdom, that ye may learn of me that there is no other way or
means whereby man can be saved, only in and through Christ. 
Behold, he is the life and the light of the world.  Behold, he is
the word of truth and righteousness.

Alma 38:10
 10 And now, as ye have begun to teach the word even so I would
that ye should continue to teach; and I would that ye would be
diligent and temperate in all things.

Alma 38:11
 11 See that ye are not lifted up unto pride; yea, see that ye do
not boast in your own wisdom, nor of your much strength.

Alma 38:12
 12 Use boldness, but not overbearance; and also see that ye
bridle all your passions, that ye may be filled with love; see
that ye refrain from idleness.

Alma 38:13
 13 Do not pray as the Zoramites do, for ye have seen that they
pray to be heard of men, and to be praised for their wisdom.

Alma 38:14
 14 Do not say: O God, I thank thee that we are better than our
brethren; but rather say: O Lord, forgive my unworthiness, and
remember my brethren in mercy--yea, acknowledge your unworthiness
before God at all times.

Alma 38:15
 15 And may the Lord bless your soul, and receive you at the last
day into his kingdom, to sit down in peace.  Now go, my son, and
teach the word unto this people.  Be sober.  My son, farewell.

Alma 39
Chapter 39

Alma 39:1
 1 And now, my son, I have somewhat more to say unto thee than
what I said unto thy brother; for behold, have ye not observed
the steadiness of thy brother, his faithfulness, and his
diligence in keeping the commandments of God?  Behold, has he not
set a good example for thee?

Alma 39:2
 2 For thou didst not give so much heed unto my words as did thy
brother, among the people of the Zoramites.  Now this is what I
have against thee; thou didst go on unto boasting in thy strength
and thy wisdom.

Alma 39:3
 3 And this is not all, my son.  Thou didst do that which was
grievous unto me; for thou didst forsake the ministry, and did go
over into the land of Siron, among the borders of the Lamanites,
after the harlot Isabel.

Alma 39:4
 4 Yea, she did steal away the hearts of many; but this was no
excuse for thee, my son.  Thou shouldst have tended to the
ministry wherewith thou wast entrusted.

Alma 39:5
 5 Know ye not, my son, that these things are an abomination in
the sight of the Lord; yea, most abominable above all sins save
it be the shedding of innocent blood or denying the Holy Ghost?

Alma 39:6
 6 For behold, if ye deny the Holy Ghost when it once has had
place in you, and ye know that ye deny it, behold, this is a sin
which is unpardonable; yea, and whosoever murdereth against the
light and knowledge of God, it is not easy for him to obtain
forgiveness; yea, I say unto you, my son, that it is not easy for
him to obtain a forgiveness.

Alma 39:7
 7 And now, my son, I would to God that ye had not been guilty of
so great a crime.  I would not dwell upon your crimes, to harrow
up your soul, if it were not for your good.

Alma 39:8
 8 But behold, ye cannot hide your crimes from God; and except ye
repent they will stand as a testimony against you at the last
day.

Alma 39:9
 9 Now my son, I would that ye should repent and forsake your
sins, and go no more after the lusts of your eyes, but cross
yourself in all these things; for except ye do this ye can in
nowise inherit the kingdom of God.  Oh, remember, and take it
upon you, and cross yourself in these things.

Alma 39:10
 10 And I command you to take it upon you to counsel with your
elder brothers in your undertakings; for behold, thou art in thy
youth, and ye stand in need to be nourished by your brothers. 
And give heed to their counsel.

Alma 39:11
 11 Suffer not yourself to be led away by any vain or foolish
thing; suffer not the devil to lead away your heart again after
those wicked harlots.  Behold, O my son, how great iniquity ye
brought upon the Zoramites; for when they saw your conduct they
would not believe in my words.

Alma 39:12
 12 And now the Spirit of the Lord doth say unto me: Command thy
children to do good, lest they lead away the hearts of many
people to destruction; therefore I command you, my son, in the
fear of God, that ye refrain from your iniquities;

Alma 39:13
 13 That ye turn to the Lord with all your mind, might, and
strength; that ye lead away the hearts of no more to do wickedly;
but rather return unto them, and acknowledge your faults and that
wrong which ye have done.

Alma 39:14
 14 Seek not after riches nor the vain things of this world; for
behold, you cannot carry them with you.

Alma 39:15
 15 And now, my son, I would say somewhat unto you concerning the
coming of Christ.  Behold, I say unto you, that it is he that
surely shall come to take away the sins of the world; yea, he
cometh to declare glad tidings of salvation unto his people.

Alma 39:16
 16 And now, my son, this was the ministry unto which ye were
called, to declare these glad tidings unto this people to prepare
their minds; or rather that salvation might come unto them, that
they may prepare the minds of their children to hear the word at
the time of his coming.

Alma 39:17
 17 And now I will ease your mind somewhat on this subject. 
Behold, you marvel why these things should be known so long
beforehand.  Behold, I say unto you, is not a soul at this time
as precious unto God as a soul will be at the time of his coming?

Alma 39:18
 18 Is it not as necessary that the plan of redemption should be
made known unto this people as well as unto their children?

Alma 39:19
 19 Is it not as easy at this time for the Lord to send his angel
to declare these glad tidings unto us as unto our children, or as
after the time of his coming?

Alma 40
Chapter 40

Alma 40:1
 1 Now my son, here is somewhat more I would say unto thee; for I
perceive that thy mind is worried concerning the resurrection of
the dead.

Alma 40:2
 2 Behold, I say unto you, that there is no resurrection--or, I
would say, in other words, that this mortal does not put on
immortality, this corruption does not put on incorruption--until
after the coming of Christ.

Alma 40:3
 3 Behold, he bringeth to pass the resurrection of the dead.  But
behold, my son, the resurrection is not yet.  Now, I unfold unto
you a mystery; nevertheless, there are many mysteries which are
kept, that no one knoweth them save God himself.  But I show unto
you one thing which I have inquired diligently of God that I
might know--that is concerning the resurrection.

Alma 40:4
 4 Behold, there is a time appointed that all shall come forth
from the dead.  Now when this time cometh no one knows; but God
knoweth the time which is appointed.

Alma 40:5
 5 Now, whether there shall be one time, or a second time, or a
third time, that men shall come forth from the dead, it mattereth
not; for God knoweth all these things; and it sufficeth me to
know that this is the case--that there is a time appointed that
all shall rise from the dead.

Alma 40:6
 6 Now there must needs be a space betwixt the time of death and
the time of the resurrection.

Alma 40:7
 7 And now I would inquire what becometh of the souls of men from
this time of death to the time appointed for the resurrection?

Alma 40:8
 8 Now whether there is more than one time appointed for men to
rise it mattereth not; for all do not die at once, and this
mattereth not; all is as one day with God, and time only is
measured unto men.

Alma 40:9
 9 Therefore, there is a time appointed unto men that they shall
rise from the dead; and there is a space between the time of
death and the resurrection.  And now, concerning this space of
time, what becometh of the souls of men is the thing which I have
inquired diligently of the Lord to know; and this is the thing of
which I do know.

Alma 40:10
 10 And when the time cometh when all shall rise, then shall they
know that God knoweth all the times which are appointed unto man.

Alma 40:11
 11 Now, concerning the state of the soul between death and the
resurrection--Behold, it has been made known unto me by an angel,
that the spirits of all men, as soon as they are departed from
this mortal body, yea, the spirits of all men, whether they be
good or evil, are taken home to that God who gave them life.

Alma 40:12
 12 And then shall it come to pass, that the spirits of those who
are righteous are received into a state of happiness, which is
called paradise, a state of rest, a state of peace, where they
shall rest from all their troubles and from all care, and sorrow.

Alma 40:13
 13 And then shall it come to pass, that the spirits of the
wicked, yea, who are evil--for behold, they have no part nor
portion of the Spirit of the Lord; for behold, they chose evil
works rather than good; therefore the spirit of the devil did
enter into them, and take possession of their house--and these
shall be cast out into outer darkness; there shall be weeping,
and wailing, and gnashing of teeth, and this because of their own
iniquity, being led captive by the will of the devil.

Alma 40:14
 14 Now this is the state of the souls of the wicked, yea, in
darkness, and a state of awful, fearful looking for the fiery
indignation of the wrath of God upon them; thus they remain in
this state, as well as the righteous in paradise, until the time
of their resurrection.

Alma 40:15
 15 Now, there are some that have understood that this state of
happiness and this state of misery of the soul, before the
resurrection, was a first resurrection.  Yea, I admit it may be
termed a resurrection, the raising of the spirit or the soul and
their consignation to happiness or misery, according to the words
which have been spoken.

Alma 40:16
 16 And behold, again it hath been spoken, that there is a first
resurrection, a resurrection of all those who have been, or who
are, or who shall be, down to the resurrection of Christ from the
dead.

Alma 40:17
 17 Now, we do not suppose that this first resurrection, which is
spoken of in this manner, can be the resurrection of the souls
and their consignation to happiness or misery.  Ye cannot suppose
that this is what it meaneth.

Alma 40:18
 18 Behold, I say unto you, Nay; but it meaneth the reuniting of
the soul with the body, of those from the days of Adam down to
the resurrection of Christ.

Alma 40:19
 19 Now, whether the souls and the bodies of those of whom has
been spoken shall all be reunited at once, the wicked as well as
the righteous, I do not say; let it suffice; that I say that they
all come forth; or in other words, their resurrection cometh to
pass before the resurrection of those who die after the
resurrection of Christ.

Alma 40:20
 20 Now, my son, I do not say that their resurrection cometh at
the resurrection of Christ; but behold, I give it as my opinion,
that the souls and the bodies are reunited, of the righteous, at
the resurrection of Christ, and his ascension into heaven.

Alma 40:21
 21 But whether it be at his resurrection or after, I do not say;
but this much I say, that there is a space between death and the
resurrection of the body, and a state of the soul in happiness or
in misery until the time which is appointed of God that the dead
shall come forth, and be reunited, both soul and body, and be
brought to stand before God, and be judged according to their
works.

Alma 40:22
 22 Yea, this bringeth about the restoration of those things of
which has been spoken by the mouths of the prophets.

Alma 40:23
 23 The soul shall be restored to the body, and the body to the
soul; yea, and every limb and joint shall be restored to its
body; yea, even a hair of the head shall not be lost; but all
things shall be restored to their proper and perfect frame.

Alma 40:24
 24 And now, my son, this is the restoration of which has been
spoken by the mouths of the prophets--

Alma 40:25
 25 And then shall the righteous shine forth in the kingdom of
God.

Alma 40:26
 26 But behold, an awful death cometh upon the wicked; for they
die as to things pertaining to things of righteousness; for they
are unclean, and no unclean thing can inherit the kingdom of God;
but they are cast out, and consigned to partake of the fruits of
their labors or their works, which have been evil; and they drink
the dregs of a bitter cup.




Alma 41
Chapter 41

Alma 41:1
 1 And now, my son, I have somewhat to say concerning the
restoration of which has been spoken; for behold, some have
wrested the scriptures, and have gone far astray because of this
thing.  And I perceive that thy mind has been worried also
concerning this thing.  But behold, I will explain it unto thee.

Alma 41:2
 2 I say unto thee, my son, that the plan of restoration is
requisite with the justice of God; for it is requisite that all
things should be restored to their proper order.  Behold, it is
requisite and just, according to the power and resurrection of
Christ, that the soul of man should be restored to its body, and
that every part of the body should be restored to itself.

Alma 41:3
 3 And it is requisite with the justice of God that men should be
judged according to their works; and if their works were good in
this life, and the desires of their hearts were good, that they
should also, at the last day, be restored unto that which is
good.

Alma 41:4
 4 And if their works are evil they shall be restored unto them
for evil.  Therefore, all things shall be restored to their
proper order, every thing to its natural frame--mortality raised
to immortality, corruption to incorruption--raised to endless
happiness to inherit the kingdom of God, or to endless misery to
inherit the kingdom of the devil, the one on one hand, the other
on the other--

Alma 41:5
 5 The one raised to happiness according to his desires of
happiness, or good according to his desires of good; and the
other to evil according to his desires of evil; for as he has
desired to do evil all the day long even so shall he have his
reward of evil when the night cometh.

Alma 41:6
 6 And so it is on the other hand.  If he hath repented of his
sins, and desired righteousness until the end of his days, even
so he shall be rewarded unto righteousness.

Alma 41:7
 7 These are they that are redeemed of the Lord; yea, these are
they that are taken out, that are delivered from that endless
night of darkness; and thus they stand or fall; for behold, they
are their own judges, whether to do good or do evil.

Alma 41:8
 8 Now, the decrees of God are unalterable; therefore, the way is
prepared that whosoever will may walk therein and be saved.

Alma 41:9
 9 And now behold, my son, do not risk one more offense against
your God upon those points of doctrine, which ye have hitherto
risked to commit sin.

Alma 41:10
 10 Do not suppose, because it has been spoken concerning
restoration, that ye shall be restored from sin to happiness. 
Behold, I say unto you, wickedness never was happiness.

Alma 41:11
 11 And now, my son, all men that are in a state of nature, or I
would say, in a carnal state, are in the gall of bitterness and
in the bonds of iniquity; they are without God in the world, and
they have gone contrary to the nature of God; therefore, they are
in a state contrary to the nature of happiness.

Alma 41:12
 12 And now behold, is the meaning of the word restoration to
take a thing of a natural state and place it in an unnatural
state, or to place it in a state opposite to its nature?

Alma 41:13
 13 O, my son, this is not the case; but the meaning of the word
restoration is to bring back again evil for evil, or carnal for
carnal, or devilish for devilish--good for that which is good;
righteous for that which is righteous; just for that which is
just; merciful for that which is merciful.

Alma 41:14
 14 Therefore, my son, see that you are merciful unto your
brethren; deal justly, judge righteously, and do good
continually; and if ye do all these things then shall ye receive
your reward; yea, ye shall have mercy restored unto you again; ye
shall have justice restored unto you again; ye shall have a
righteous judgment restored unto you again; and ye shall have
good rewarded unto you again.

Alma 41:15
 15 For that which ye do send out shall return unto you again,
and be restored; therefore, the word restoration more fully
condemneth the sinner, and justifieth him not at all.

Alma 42
Chapter 42

Alma 42:1
 1 And now, my son, I perceive there is somewhat more which doth
worry your mind, which ye cannot understand--which is concerning
the justice of God in the punishment of the sinner; for ye do try
to suppose that it is injustice that the sinner should be
consigned to a state of misery.

Alma 42:2
 2 Now behold, my son, I will explain this thing unto thee.  For
behold, after the Lord God sent our first parents forth from the
garden of Eden, to till the ground, from whence they were
taken--yea, he drew out the man, and he placed at the east end of
the garden of Eden, cherubim, and a flaming sword which turned
every way, to keep the tree of life--

Alma 42:3
 3 Now, we see that the man had become as God, knowing good and
evil; and lest he should put forth his hand, and take also of the
tree of life, and eat and live forever, the Lord God placed
cherubim and the flaming sword, that he should not partake of the
fruit--

Alma 42:4
 4 And thus we see, that there was a time granted unto man to
repent, yea, a probationary time, a time to repent and serve God.

Alma 42:5
 5 For behold, if Adam had put forth his hand immediately, and
partaken of the tree of life, he would have lived forever,
according to the word of God, having no space for repentance;
yea, and also the word of God would have been void, and the great
plan of salvation would have been frustrated.

Alma 42:6
 6 But behold, it was appointed unto man to die--therefore, as
they were cut off from the tree of life they should be cut off
from the face of the earth--and man became lost forever, yea,
they became fallen man.

Alma 42:7
 7 And now, ye see by this that our first parents were cut off
both temporally and spiritually from the presence of the Lord;
and thus we see they became subjects to follow after their own
will.

Alma 42:8
 8 Now behold, it was not expedient that man should be reclaimed
from this temporal death, for that would destroy the great plan
of happiness.

Alma 42:9
 9 Therefore, as the soul could never die, and the fall had
brought upon all mankind a spiritual death as well as a temporal,
that is, they were cut off from the presence of the Lord, it was
expedient that mankind should be reclaimed from this spiritual
death.

Alma 42:10
 10 Therefore, as they had become carnal, sensual, and devilish,
by nature, this probationary state became a state for them to
prepare; it became a preparatory state.

Alma 42:11
 11 And now remember, my son, if it were not for the plan of
redemption, (laying it aside) as soon as they were dead their
souls were miserable, being cut off from the presence of the
Lord.

Alma 42:12
 12 And now, there was no means to reclaim men from this fallen
state, which man had brought upon himself because of his own
disobedience;

Alma 42:13
 13 Therefore, according to justice, the plan of redemption could
not be brought about, only on conditions of repentance of men in
this probationary state, yea, this preparatory state; for except
it were for these conditions, mercy could not take effect except
it should destroy the work of justice.  Now the work of justice
could not be destroyed; if so, God would cease to be God.

Alma 42:14
 14 And thus we see that all mankind were fallen, and they were
in the grasp of justice; yea, the justice of God, which consigned
them forever to be cut off from his presence.

Alma 42:15
 15 And now, the plan of mercy could not be brought about except
an atonement should be made; therefore God himself atoneth for
the sins of the world, to bring about the plan of mercy, to
appease the demands of justice, that God might be a perfect, just
God, and a merciful God also.

Alma 42:16
 16 Now, repentance could not come unto men except there were a
punishment, which also was eternal as the life of the soul should
be, affixed opposite to the plan of happiness, which was as
eternal also as the life of the soul.

Alma 42:17
 17 Now, how could a man repent except he should sin?  How could
he sin if there was no law?  How could there be a law save there
was a punishment?

Alma 42:18
 18 Now, there was a punishment affixed, and a just law given,
which brought remorse of conscience unto man.

Alma 42:19
 19 Now, if there was no law given--if a man murdered he should
die--would he be afraid he would die if he should murder?

Alma 42:20
 20 And also, if there was no law given against sin men would not
be afraid to sin.

Alma 42:21
 21 And if there was no law given, if men sinned what could
justice do, or mercy either, for they would have no claim upon
the creature?

Alma 42:22
 22 But there is a law given, and a punishment affixed, and a
repentance granted; which repentance mercy claimeth; otherwise,
justice claimeth the creature and executeth the law, and the law
inflicteth the punishment; if not so, the works of justice would
be destroyed, and God would cease to be God.

Alma 42:23
 23 But God ceaseth not to be God, and mercy claimeth the
penitent, and mercy cometh because of the atonement; and the
atonement bringeth to pass the resurrection of the dead; and the
resurrection of the dead bringeth back men into the presence of
God; and thus they are restored into his presence, to be judged
according to their works, according to the law and justice.

Alma 42:24
 24 For behold, justice exerciseth all his demands, and also
mercy claimeth all which is her own; and thus, none but the truly
penitent are saved.

Alma 42:25
 25 What, do ye suppose that mercy can rob justice?  I say unto
you, Nay; not one whit.  If so, God would cease to be God.

Alma 42:26
 26 And thus God bringeth about his great and eternal purposes,
which were prepared from the foundation of the world.  And thus
cometh about the salvation and the redemption of men, and also
their destruction and misery.

Alma 42:27
 27 Therefore, O my son, whosoever will come may come and partake
of the waters of life freely; and whosoever will not come the
same is not compelled to come; but in the last day it shall be
restored unto him according to his deeds.

Alma 42:28
 28 If he has desired to do evil, and has not repented in his
days, behold, evil shall be done unto him, according to the
restoration of God.

Alma 42:29
 29 And now, my son, I desire that ye should let these things
trouble you no more, and only let your sins trouble you, with
that trouble which shall bring you down unto repentance.

Alma 42:30
 30 O my son, I desire that ye should deny the justice of God no
more.  Do not endeavor to excuse yourself in the least point
because of your sins, by denying the justice of God; but do you
let the justice of God, and his mercy, and his long-suffering
have full sway in your heart; and let it bring you down to the
dust in humility.

Alma 42:31
 31 And now, O my son, ye are called of God to preach the word
unto this people.  And now, my son, go thy way, declare the word
with truth and soberness, that thou mayest bring souls unto
repentance, that the great plan of mercy may have claim upon
them.  And may God grant unto you even according to my words. 
Amen.




Believest thou the words which I spake
unto thee concerning those records which have been kept?




Believest thou in Jesus Christ, who shall
come?

 Will ye keep my commandments?


Blessed art thou; and the Lord shall
prosper thee in this land.

Alma 45:9
 9 But behold, I have somewhat to prophesy unto thee; but what I
prophesy unto thee ye shall not make known; yea, what I prophesy
unto thee shall not be made known, even until the prophecy is
fulfilled; therefore write the words which I shall say.

Alma 45:10
 10 And these are the words: Behold, I perceive that this very
people, the Nephites, according to the spirit of revelation which
is in me, in four hundred years from the time that Jesus Christ
shall manifest himself unto them, shall dwindle in unbelief.

Alma 45:11
 11 Yea, and then shall they see wars and pestilences, yea,
famines and bloodshed, even until the people of Nephi shall
become extinct--

Alma 45:12
 12 Yea, and this because they shall dwindle in unbelief and fall
into the works of darkness, and lasciviousness, and all manner of
iniquities; yea, I say unto you, that because they shall sin
against so great light and knowledge, yea, I say unto you, that
from that day, even the fourth generation shall not all pass away
before this great iniquity shall come.

Alma 45:13
 13 And when that great day cometh, behold, the time very soon
cometh that those who are now, or the seed of those who are now
numbered among the people of Nephi, shall no more be numbered
among the people of Nephi.

Alma 45:14
 14 But whosoever remaineth, and is not destroyed in that great
and dreadful day, shall be numbered among the Lamanites, and
shall become like unto them, all, save it be a few who shall be
called the disciples of the Lord; and them shall the Lamanites
pursue even until they shall become extinct.  And now, because of
iniquity, this prophecy shall be fulfilled.

Thus saith the Lord God--Cursed shall be the
land, yea, this land, unto every nation, kindred, tongue, and
people, unto destruction, which do wickedly, when they are fully
ripe; and as I have said so shall it be; for this is the cursing
and the blessing of God upon the land, for the Lord cannot look
upon sin with the least degree of allowance.









