My sons, I would that ye
should remember that were it not for these plates, which contain
these records and these commandments, we must have suffered in
ignorance, even at this present time, not knowing the mysteries
of God.

Mosiah 1:4
 4 For it were not possible that our father, Lehi, could have
remembered all these things, to have taught them to his children,
except it were for the help of these plates; for he having been
taught in the language of the Egyptians therefore he could read
these engravings, and teach them to his children, that thereby
they could teach them to their children, and so fulfilling the
commandments of God, even down to this present time.

Mosiah 1:5
 5 I say unto you, my sons, were it not for these things, which
have been kept and preserved by the hand of God, that we might
read and understand of his mysteries, and have his commandments
always before our eyes, that even our fathers would have dwindled
in unbelief, and we should have been like unto our brethren, the
Lamanites, who know nothing concerning these things, or even do
not believe them when they are taught them, because of the
traditions of their fathers, which are not correct.

Mosiah 1:6
 6 O my sons, I would that ye should remember that these sayings
are true, and also that these records are true.  And behold, also
the plates of Nephi, which contain the records and the sayings of
our fathers from the time they left Jerusalem until now, and they
are true; and we can know of their surety because we have them
before our eyes.

Mosiah 1:7
 7 And now, my sons, I would that ye should remember to search
them diligently, that ye may profit thereby; and I would that ye
should keep the commandments of God, that ye may prosper in the
land according to the promises which the Lord made unto our
fathers.


.


My son, I would that
ye should make a proclamation throughout all this land among all
this people, or the people of Zarahemla, and the people of Mosiah
who dwell in the land, that thereby they may be gathered
together; for on the morrow I shall proclaim unto this my people
out of mine own mouth that thou art a king and a ruler over this
people, whom the Lord our God hath given us.

Mosiah 1:11
 11 And moreover, I shall give this people a name, that thereby
they may be distinguished above all the people which the Lord God
hath brought out of the land of Jerusalem; and this I do because
they have been a diligent people in keeping the commandments of
the Lord.

Mosiah 1:12
 12 And I give unto them a name that never shall be blotted out,
except it be through transgression.

Mosiah 1:13
 13 Yea, and moreover I say unto you, that if this highly favored
people of the Lord should fall into transgression, and become a
wicked and an adulterous people, that the Lord will deliver them
up, that thereby they become weak like unto their brethren; and
he will no more preserve them by his matchless and marvelous
power, as he has hitherto preserved our fathers.

Mosiah 1:14
 14 For I say unto you, that if he had not extended his arm in
the preservation of our fathers they must have fallen into the
hands of the Lamanites, and become victims to their hatred.


.


My brethren, all ye that have assembled
yourselves together, you that can hear my words which I shall
speak unto you this day; for I have not commanded you to come up
hither to trifle with the words which I shall speak, but that you
should hearken unto me, and open your ears that ye may hear, and
your hearts that ye may understand, and your minds that the
mysteries of God may be unfolded to your view.

Mosiah 2:10
 10 I have not commanded you to come up hither that ye should
fear me, or that ye should think that I of myself am more than a
mortal man.

Mosiah 2:11
 11 But I am like as yourselves, subject to all manner of
infirmities in body and mind; yet I have been chosen by this
people, and consecrated by my father, and was suffered by the
hand of the Lord that I should be a ruler and a king over this
people; and have been kept and preserved by his matchless power,
to serve you with all the might, mind and strength which the Lord
hath granted unto me.

Mosiah 2:12
 12 I say unto you that as I have been suffered to spend my days
in your service, even up to this time, and have not sought gold
nor silver nor any manner of riches of you;

Mosiah 2:13
 13 Neither have I suffered that ye should be confined in
dungeons, nor that ye should make slaves one of another, nor that
ye should murder, or plunder, or steal, or commit adultery; nor
even have I suffered that ye should commit any manner of
wickedness, and have taught you that ye should keep the
commandments of the Lord, in all things which he hath commanded
you--

Mosiah 2:14
 14 And even I, myself, have labored with mine own hands that I
might serve you, and that ye should not be laden with taxes, and
that there should nothing come upon you which was grievous to be
borne--and of all these things which I have spoken, ye yourselves
are witnesses this day.

Mosiah 2:15
 15 Yet, my brethren, I have not done these things that I might
boast, neither do I tell these things that thereby I might accuse
you; but I tell you these things that ye may know that I can
answer a clear conscience before God this day.

Mosiah 2:16
 16 Behold, I say unto you that because I said unto you that I
had spent my days in your service, I do not desire to boast, for
I have only been in the service of God.

Mosiah 2:17
 17 And behold, I tell you these things that ye may learn wisdom;
that ye may learn that when ye are in the service of your fellow
beings ye are only in the service of your God.

Mosiah 2:18
 18 Behold, ye have called me your king; and if I, whom ye call
your king, do labor to serve you, then ought not ye to labor to
serve one another?

Mosiah 2:19
 19 And behold also, if I, whom ye call your king, who has spent
his days in your service, and yet has been in the service of God,
do merit any thanks from you, O how you ought to thank your
heavenly King!

Mosiah 2:20
 20 I say unto you, my brethren, that if you should render all
the thanks and praise which your whole soul has power to possess,
to that God who has created you, and has kept and preserved you,
and has caused that ye should rejoice, and has granted that ye
should live in peace one with another--

Mosiah 2:21
 21 I say unto you that if ye should serve him who has created
you from the beginning, and is preserving you from day to day, by
lending you breath, that ye may live and move and do according to
your own will, and even supporting you from one moment to
another--I say, if ye should serve him with all your whole souls
yet ye would be unprofitable servants.

Mosiah 2:22
 22 And behold, all that he requires of you is to keep his
commandments; and he has promised you that if ye would keep his
commandments ye should prosper in the land; and he never doth
vary from that which he hath said; therefore, if ye do keep his
commandments he doth bless you and prosper you.

Mosiah 2:23
 23 And now, in the first place, he hath created you, and granted
unto you your lives, for which ye are indebted unto him.

Mosiah 2:24
 24 And secondly, he doth require that ye should do as he hath
commanded you; for which if ye do, he doth immediately bless you;
and therefore he hath paid you.  And ye are still indebted unto
him, and are, and will be, forever and ever; therefore, of what
have ye to boast?

Mosiah 2:25
 25 And now I ask, can ye say aught of yourselves?  I answer you,
Nay.  Ye cannot say that ye are even as much as the dust of the
earth; yet ye were created of the dust of the earth; but behold,
it belongeth to him who created you.

Mosiah 2:26
 26 And I, even I, whom ye call your king, am no better than ye
yourselves are; for I am also of the dust.  And ye behold that I
am old, and am about to yield up this mortal frame to its mother
earth.

Mosiah 2:27
 27 Therefore, as I said unto you that I had served you, walking
with a clear conscience before God, even so I at this time have
caused that ye should assemble yourselves together, that I might
be found blameless, and that your blood should not come upon me,
when I shall stand to be judged of God of the things whereof he
hath commanded me concerning you.

Mosiah 2:28
 28 I say unto you that I have caused that ye should assemble
yourselves together that I might rid my garments of your blood,
at this period of time when I am about to go down to my grave,
that I might go down in peace, and my immortal spirit may join
the choirs above in singing the praises of a just God.

Mosiah 2:29
 29 And moreover, I say unto you that I have caused that ye
should assemble yourselves together, that I might declare unto
you that I can no longer be your teacher, nor your king;

Mosiah 2:30
 30 For even at this time, my whole frame doth tremble
exceedingly while attempting to speak unto you; but the Lord God
doth support me, and hath suffered me that I should speak unto
you, and hath commanded me that I should declare unto you this
day, that my son Mosiah is a king and a ruler over you.

Mosiah 2:31
 31 And now, my brethren, I would that ye should do as ye have
hitherto done.  As ye have kept my commandments, and also the
commandments of my father, and have prospered, and have been kept
from falling into the hands of your enemies, even so if ye shall
keep the commandments of my son, or the commandments of God which
shall be delivered unto you by him, ye shall prosper in the land,
and your enemies shall have no power over you.

Mosiah 2:32
 32 But, O my people, beware lest there shall arise contentions
among you, and ye list to obey the evil spirit, which was spoken
of by my father Mosiah.

Mosiah 2:33
 33 For behold, there is a wo pronounced upon him who listeth to
obey that spirit; for if he listeth to obey him, and remaineth
and dieth in his sins, the same drinketh damnation to his own
soul; for he receiveth for his wages an everlasting punishment,
having transgressed the law of God contrary to his own knowledge.

Mosiah 2:34
 34 I say unto you, that there are not any among you, except it
be your little children that have not been taught concerning
these things, but what knoweth that ye are eternally indebted to
your heavenly Father, to render to him all that you have and are;
and also have been taught concerning the records which contain
the prophecies which have been spoken by the holy prophets, even
down to the time our father, Lehi, left Jerusalem;

Mosiah 2:35
 35 And also, all that has been spoken by our fathers until now. 
And behold, also, they spake that which was commanded them of the
Lord; therefore, they are just and true.

Mosiah 2:36
 36 And now, I say unto you, my brethren, that after ye have
known and have been taught all these things, if ye should
transgress and go contrary to that which has been spoken, that ye
do withdraw yourselves from the Spirit of the Lord, that it may
have no place in you to guide you in wisdom's paths that ye may
be blessed, prospered, and preserved--

Mosiah 2:37
 37 I say unto you, that the man that doeth this, the same cometh
out in open rebellion against God; therefore he listeth to obey
the evil spirit, and becometh an enemy to all righteousness;
therefore, the Lord has no place in him, for he dwelleth not in
unholy temples.

Mosiah 2:38
 38 Therefore if that man repenteth not, and remaineth and dieth
an enemy to God, the demands of divine justice do awaken his
immortal soul to a lively sense of his own guilt, which doth
cause him to shrink from the presence of the Lord, and doth fill
his breast with guilt, and pain, and anguish, which is like an
unquenchable fire, whose flame ascendeth up forever and ever.

Mosiah 2:39
 39 And now I say unto you, that mercy hath no claim on that man;
therefore his final doom is to endure a never-ending torment.

Mosiah 2:40
 40 O, all ye old men, and also ye young men, and you little
children who can understand my words, for I have spoken plainly
unto you that ye might understand, I pray that ye should awake to
a remembrance of the awful situation of those that have fallen
into transgression.

Mosiah 2:41
 41 And moreover, I would desire that ye should consider on the
blessed and happy state of those that keep the commandments of
God.  For behold, they are blessed in all things, both temporal
and spiritual; and if they hold out faithful to the end they are
received into heaven, that thereby they may dwell with God in a
state of never-ending happiness.  O remember, remember that these
things are true; for the Lord God hath spoken it.

Mosiah 3
Chapter 3

Mosiah 3:1
 1 And again my brethren, I would call your attention, for I have
somewhat more to speak unto you; for behold, I have things to
tell you concerning that which is to come.

Mosiah 3:2
 2 And the things which I shall tell you are made known unto me
by an angel from God.  And he said unto me: Awake; and I awoke,
and behold he stood before me.

Mosiah 3:3
 3 And he said unto me: Awake, and hear the words which I shall
tell thee; for behold, I am come to declare unto you the glad
tidings of great joy.

Mosiah 3:4
 4 For the Lord hath heard thy prayers, and hath judged of thy
righteousness, and hath sent me to declare unto thee that thou
mayest rejoice; and that thou mayest declare unto thy people,
that they may also be filled with joy.

Mosiah 3:5
 5 For behold, the time cometh, and is not far distant, that with
power, the Lord Omnipotent who reigneth, who was, and is from all
eternity to all eternity, shall come down from heaven among the
children of men, and shall dwell in a tabernacle of clay, and
shall go forth amongst men, working mighty miracles, such as
healing the sick, raising the dead, causing the lame to walk, the
blind to receive their sight, and the deaf to hear, and curing
all manner of diseases.

Mosiah 3:6
 6 And he shall cast out devils, or the evil spirits which dwell
in the hearts of the children of men.

Mosiah 3:7
 7 And lo, he shall suffer temptations, and pain of body, hunger,
thirst, and fatigue, even more than man can suffer, except it be
unto death; for behold, blood cometh from every pore, so great
shall be his anguish for the wickedness and the abominations of
his people.

Mosiah 3:8
 8 And he shall be called Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the
Father of heaven and earth, the Creator of all things from the
beginning; and his mother shall be called Mary.

Mosiah 3:9
 9 And lo, he cometh unto his own, that salvation might come unto
the children of men even through faith on his name; and even
after all this they shall consider him a man, and say that he
hath a devil, and shall scourge him, and shall crucify him.

Mosiah 3:10
 10 And he shall rise the third day from the dead; and behold, he
standeth to judge the world; and behold, all these things are
done that a righteous judgment might come upon the children of
men.

Mosiah 3:11
 11 For behold, and also his blood atoneth for the sins of those
who have fallen by the transgression of Adam, who have died not
knowing the will of God concerning them, or who have ignorantly
sinned.

Mosiah 3:12
 12 But wo, wo unto him who knoweth that he rebelleth against
God!  For salvation cometh to none such except it be through
repentance and faith on the Lord Jesus Christ.

Mosiah 3:13
 13 And the Lord God hath sent his holy prophets among all the
children of men, to declare these things to every kindred,
nation, and tongue, that thereby whosoever should believe that
Christ should come, the same might receive remission of their
sins, and rejoice with exceedingly great joy, even as though he
had already come among them.

Mosiah 3:14
 14 Yet the Lord God saw that his people were a stiffnecked
people, and he appointed unto them a law, even the law of Moses.

Mosiah 3:15
 15 And many signs, and wonders, and types, and shadows showed he
unto them, concerning his coming; and also holy prophets spake
unto them concerning his coming; and yet they hardened their
hearts, and understood not that the law of Moses availeth nothing
except it were through the atonement of his blood.

Mosiah 3:16
 16 And even if it were possible that little children could sin
they could not be saved; but I say unto you they are blessed; for
behold, as in Adam, or by nature, they fall, even so the blood of
Christ atoneth for their sins.

Mosiah 3:17
 17 And moreover, I say unto you, that there shall be no other
name given nor any other way nor means whereby salvation can come
unto the children of men, only in and through the name of Christ,
the Lord Omnipotent.

Mosiah 3:18
 18 For behold he judgeth, and his judgment is just; and the
infant perisheth not that dieth in his infancy; but men drink
damnation to their own souls except they humble themselves and
become as little children, and believe that salvation was, and
is, and is to come, in and through the atoning blood of Christ,
the Lord Omnipotent.

Mosiah 3:19
 19 For the natural man is an enemy to God, and has been from the
fall of Adam, and will be, forever and ever, unless he yields to
the enticings of the Holy Spirit, and putteth off the natural man
and becometh a saint through the atonement of Christ the Lord,
and becometh as a child, submissive, meek, humble, patient, full
of love, willing to submit to all things which the Lord seeth fit
to inflict upon him, even as a child doth submit to his father.

Mosiah 3:20
 20 And moreover, I say unto you, that the time shall come when
the knowledge of the Savior shall spread throughout every nation,
kindred, tongue, and people.

Mosiah 3:21
 21 And behold, when that time cometh, none shall be found
blameless before God, except it be little children, only through
repentance and faith on the name of the Lord God Omnipotent.

Mosiah 3:22
 22 And even at this time, when thou shalt have taught thy people
the things which the Lord thy God hath commanded thee, even then
are they found no more blameless in the sight of God, only
according to the words which I have spoken unto thee.

Mosiah 3:23
 23 And now I have spoken the words which the Lord God hath
commanded me.

Mosiah 3:24
 24 And thus saith the Lord: They shall stand as a bright
testimony against this people, at the judgment day; whereof they
shall be judged, every man according to his works, whether they
be good, or whether they be evil.

Mosiah 3:25
 25 And if they be evil they are consigned to an awful view of
their own guilt and abominations, which doth cause them to shrink
from the presence of the Lord into a state of misery and endless
torment, from whence they can no more return; therefore they have
drunk damnation to their own souls.

Mosiah 3:26
 26 Therefore, they have drunk out of the cup of the wrath of
God, which justice could no more deny unto them than it could
deny that Adam should fall because of his partaking of the
forbidden fruit; therefore, mercy could have claim on them no
more forever.

Mosiah 3:27
 27 And their torment is as a lake of fire and brimstone, whose
flames are unquenchable, and whose smoke ascendeth up forever and
ever.  Thus hath the Lord commanded me.  Amen.


.


My friends and my brethren, my kindred and my
people, I would again call your attention, that ye may hear and
understand the remainder of my words which I shall speak unto
you.

Mosiah 4:5
 5 For behold, if the knowledge of the goodness of God at this
time has awakened you to a sense of your nothingness, and your
worthless and fallen state--

Mosiah 4:6
 6 I say unto you, if ye have come to a knowledge of the goodness
of God, and his matchless power, and his wisdom, and his
patience, and his long-suffering towards the children of men; and
also, the atonement which has been prepared from the foundation
of the world, that thereby salvation might come to him that
should put his trust in the Lord, and should be diligent in
keeping his commandments, and continue in the faith even unto the
end of his life, I mean the life of the mortal body--

Mosiah 4:7
 7 I say, that this is the man who receiveth salvation, through
the atonement which was prepared from the foundation of the world
for all mankind, which ever were since the fall of Adam, or who
are, or who ever shall be, even unto the end of the world.

Mosiah 4:8
 8 And this is the means whereby salvation cometh.  And there is
none other salvation save this which hath been spoken of; neither
are there any conditions whereby man can be saved except the
conditions which I have told you.

Mosiah 4:9
 9 Believe in God; believe that he is, and that he created all
things, both in heaven and in earth; believe that he has all
wisdom, and all power, both in heaven and in earth; believe that
man doth not comprehend all the things which the Lord can
comprehend.

Mosiah 4:10
 10 And again, believe that ye must repent of your sins and
forsake them, and humble yourselves before God; and ask in
sincerity of heart that he would forgive you; and now, if you
believe all these things see that ye do them.

Mosiah 4:11
 11 And again I say unto you as I have said before, that as ye
have come to the knowledge of the glory of God, or if ye have
known of his goodness and have tasted of his love, and have
received a remission of your sins, which causeth such exceedingly
great joy in your souls, even so I would that ye should remember,
and always retain in remembrance, the greatness of God, and your
own nothingness, and his goodness and long-suffering towards you,
unworthy creatures, and humble yourselves even in the depths of
humility, calling on the name of the Lord daily, and standing
steadfastly in the faith of that which is to come, which was
spoken by the mouth of the angel.

Mosiah 4:12
 12 And behold, I say unto you that if ye do this ye shall always
rejoice, and be filled with the love of God, and always retain a
remission of your sins; and ye shall grow in the knowledge of the
glory of him that created you, or in the knowledge of that which
is just and true.

Mosiah 4:13
 13 And ye will not have a mind to injure one another, but to
live peaceably, and to render to every man according to that
which is his due.

Mosiah 4:14
 14 And ye will not suffer your children that they go hungry, or
naked; neither will ye suffer that they transgress the laws of
God, and fight and quarrel one with another, and serve the devil,
who is the master of sin, or who is the evil spirit which hath
been spoken of by our fathers, he being an enemy to all
righteousness.

Mosiah 4:15
 15 But ye will teach them to walk in the ways of truth and
soberness; ye will teach them to love one another, and to serve
one another.

Mosiah 4:16
 16 And also, ye yourselves will succor those that stand in need
of your succor; ye will administer of your substance unto him
that standeth in need; and ye will not suffer that the beggar
putteth up his petition to you in vain, and turn him out to
perish.

Mosiah 4:17
 17 Perhaps thou shalt say: The man has brought upon himself his
misery; therefore I will stay my hand, and will not give unto him
of my food, nor impart unto him of my substance that he may not
suffer, for his punishments are just--

Mosiah 4:18
 18 But I say unto you, O man, whosoever doeth this the same hath
great cause to repent; and except he repenteth of that which he
hath done he perisheth forever, and hath no interest in the
kingdom of God.

Mosiah 4:19
 19 For behold, are we not all beggars?  Do we not all depend
upon the same Being, even God, for all the substance which we
have, for both food and raiment, and for gold, and for silver,
and for all the riches which we have of every kind?

Mosiah 4:20
 20 And behold, even at this time, ye have been calling on his
name, and begging for a remission of your sins.  And has he
suffered that ye have begged in vain?  Nay; he has poured out his
Spirit upon you, and has caused that your hearts should be filled
with joy, and has caused that your mouths should be stopped that
ye could not find utterance, so exceedingly great was your joy.

Mosiah 4:21
 21 And now, if God, who has created you, on whom you are
dependent for your lives and for all that ye have and are, doth
grant unto you whatsoever ye ask that is right, in faith,
believing that ye shall receive, O then, how ye ought to impart
of the substance that ye have one to another.

Mosiah 4:22
 22 And if ye judge the man who putteth up his petition to you
for your substance that he perish not, and condemn him, how much
more just will be your condemnation for withholding your
substance, which doth not belong to you but to God, to whom also
your life belongeth; and yet ye put up no petition, nor repent of
the thing which thou hast done.

Mosiah 4:23
 23 I say unto you, wo be unto that man, for his substance shall
perish with him; and now, I say these things unto those who are
rich as pertaining to the things of this world.

Mosiah 4:24
 24 And again, I say unto the poor, ye who have not and yet have
sufficient, that ye remain from day to day; I mean all you who
deny the beggar, because ye have not; I would that ye say in your
hearts that: I give not because I have not, but if I had I would
give.

Mosiah 4:25
 25 And now, if ye say this in your hearts ye remain guiltless,
otherwise ye are condemned; and your condemnation is just for ye
covet that which ye have not received.

Mosiah 4:26
 26 And now, for the sake of these things which I have spoken
unto you--that is, for the sake of retaining a remission of your
sins from day to day, that ye may walk guiltless before God--I
would that ye should impart of your substance to the poor, every
man according to that which he hath, such as feeding the hungry,
clothing the naked, visiting the sick and administering to their
relief, both spiritually and temporally, according to their
wants.

Mosiah 4:27
 27 And see that all these things are done in wisdom and order;
for it is not requisite that a man should run faster than he has
strength.  And again, it is expedient that he should be diligent,
that thereby he might win the prize; therefore, all things must
be done in order.

Mosiah 4:28
 28 And I would that ye should remember, that whosoever among you
borroweth of his neighbor should return the thing that he
borroweth, according as he doth agree, or else thou shalt commit
sin; and perhaps thou shalt cause thy neighbor to commit sin
also.

Mosiah 4:29
 29 And finally, I cannot tell you all the things whereby ye may
commit sin; for there are divers ways and means, even so many
that I cannot number them.

Mosiah 4:30
 30 But this much I can tell you, that if ye do not watch
yourselves, and your thoughts, and your words, and your deeds,
and observe the commandments of God, and continue in the faith of
what ye have heard concerning the coming of our Lord, even unto
the end of your lives, ye must perish.  And now, O man, remember,
and perish not.

.


Ye have spoken the words
that I desired; and the covenant which ye have made is a
righteous covenant.

Mosiah 5:7
 7 And now, because of the covenant which ye have made ye shall
be called the children of Christ, his sons, and his daughters;
for behold, this day he hath spiritually begotten you; for ye say
that your hearts are changed through faith on his name;
therefore, ye are born of him and have become his sons and his
daughters.

Mosiah 5:8
 8 And under this head ye are made free, and there is no other
head whereby ye can be made free.  There is no other name given
whereby salvation cometh; therefore, I would that ye should take
upon you the name of Christ, all you that have entered into the
covenant with God that ye should be obedient unto the end of your
lives.

Mosiah 5:9
 9 And it shall come to pass that whosoever doeth this shall be
found at the right hand of God, for he shall know the name by
which he is called; for he shall be called by the name of Christ.

Mosiah 5:10
 10 And now it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall not take
upon him the name of Christ must be called by some other name;
therefore, he findeth himself on the left hand of God.

Mosiah 5:11
 11 And I would that ye should remember also, that this is the
name that I said I should give unto you that never should be
blotted out, except it be through transgression; therefore, take
heed that ye do not transgress, that the name be not blotted out
of your hearts.

Mosiah 5:12
 12 I say unto you, I would that ye should remember to retain the
name written always in your hearts, that ye are not found on the
left hand of God, but that ye hear and know the voice by which ye
shall be called, and also, the name by which he shall call you.

Mosiah 5:13
 13 For how knoweth a man the master whom he has not served, and
who is a stranger unto him, and is far from the thoughts and
intents of his heart?

Mosiah 5:14
 14 And again, doth a man take an ass which belongeth to his
neighbor, and keep him?  I say unto you, Nay; he will not even
suffer that he shall feed among his flocks, but will drive him
away, and cast him out.  I say unto you, that even so shall it be
among you if ye know not the name by which ye are called.

Mosiah 5:15
 15 Therefore, I would that ye should be steadfast and immovable,
always abounding in good works, that Christ, the Lord God
Omnipotent, may seal you his, that you may be brought to heaven,
that ye may have everlasting salvation and eternal life, through
the wisdom, and power, and justice, and mercy of him who created
all things, in heaven and in earth, who is God above all.  Amen.
