
Jacob
THE BOOK OF JACOB
THE BROTHER OF NEPHI
The words of his preaching unto his brethren.  He confoundeth a
man who seeketh to overthrow the doctrine of Christ.  A few words
concerning the history of the people of Nephi.

Jacob 1
Chapter 1

Jacob 1:1
 1 For behold, it came to pass that fifty and five years had
passed away from the time that Lehi left Jerusalem; wherefore,
Nephi gave me, Jacob, a commandment concerning the small plates,
upon which these things are engraven.

Jacob 1:2
 2 And he gave me, Jacob, a commandment that I should write upon
these plates a few of the things which I consider to be most
precious; that I should not touch, save it were lightly,
concerning the history of this people which are called the people
of Nephi.

Jacob 1:3
 3 For he said that the history of his people should be engraven
upon his other plates, and that I should preserve these plates
and hand them down unto my seed, from generation to generation.

Jacob 1:4
 4 And if there were preaching which was sacred, or revelation
which was great, or prophesying, that I should engraven the heads
of them upon these plates, and touch upon them as much as it were
possible, for Christ's sake, and for the sake of our people.

Jacob 1:5
 5 For because of faith and great anxiety, it truly had been made
manifest unto us concerning our people, what things should happen
unto them.

Jacob 1:6
 6 And we also had many revelations, and the spirit of much
prophecy; wherefore, we knew of Christ and his kingdom, which
should come.

Jacob 1:7
 7 Wherefore we labored diligently among our people, that we
might persuade them to come unto Christ, and partake of the
goodness of God, that they might enter into his rest, lest by any
means he should swear in his wrath they should not enter in, as
in the provocation in the days of temptation while the children
of Israel were in the wilderness.

Jacob 1:8
 8 Wherefore, we would to God that we could persuade all men not
to rebel against God, to provoke him to anger, but that all men
would believe in Christ, and view his death, and suffer his cross
and bear the shame of the world; wherefore, I, Jacob, take it
upon me to fulfil the commandment of my brother Nephi.

Jacob 1:9
 9 Now Nephi began to be old, and he saw that he must soon die;
wherefore, he anointed a man to be a king and a ruler over his
people now, according to the reigns of the kings.

Jacob 1:10
 10 The people having loved Nephi exceedingly, he having been a
great protector for them, having wielded the sword of Laban in
their defence, and having labored in all his days for their
welfare--

Jacob 1:11
 11 Wherefore, the people were desirous to retain in remembrance
his name.  And whoso should reign in his stead were called by the
people, second Nephi, third Nephi, and so forth, according to the
reigns of the kings; and thus they were called by the people, let
them be of whatever name they would.

Jacob 1:12
 12 And it came to pass that Nephi died.

Jacob 1:13
 13 Now the people which were not Lamanites were Nephites;
nevertheless, they were called Nephites, Jacobites, Josephites,
Zoramites, Lamanites, Lemuelites, and Ishmaelites.

Jacob 1:14
 14 But I, Jacob, shall not hereafter distinguish them by these
names, but I shall call them Lamanites that seek to destroy the
people of Nephi, and those who are friendly to Nephi I shall call
Nephites, or the people of Nephi, according to the reigns of the
kings.

Jacob 1:15
 15 And now it came to pass that the people of Nephi, under the
reign of the second king, began to grow hard in their hearts, and
indulge themselves somewhat in wicked practices, such as like
unto David of old desiring many wives and concubines, and also
Solomon, his son.

Jacob 1:16
 16 Yea, and they also began to search much gold and silver, and
began to be lifted up somewhat in pride.

Jacob 1:17
 17 Wherefore I, Jacob, gave unto them these words as I taught
them in the temple, having first obtained mine errand from the
Lord.

Jacob 1:18
 18 For I, Jacob, and my brother Joseph had been consecrated
priests and teachers of this people, by the hand of Nephi.

Jacob 1:19
 19 And we did magnify our office unto the Lord, taking upon us
the responsibility, answering the sins of the people upon our own
heads if we did not teach them the word of God with all
diligence; wherefore, by laboring with our might their blood
might not come upon our garments; otherwise their blood would
come upon our garments, and we would not be found spotless at the
last day.

Jacob 2
Chapter 2

Jacob 2:1
 1 The words which Jacob, the brother of Nephi, spake unto the
people of Nephi, after the death of Nephi:

Jacob 2:2
 2 Now, my beloved brethren, I, Jacob, according to the
responsibility which I am under to God, to magnify mine office
with soberness, and that I might rid my garments of your sins, I
come up into the temple this day that I might declare unto you
the word of God.

Jacob 2:3
 3 And ye yourselves know that I have hitherto been diligent in
the office of my calling; but I this day am weighed down with
much more desire and anxiety for the welfare of your souls than I
have hitherto been.

Jacob 2:4
 4 For behold, as yet, ye have been obedient unto the word of the
Lord, which I have given unto you.

Jacob 2:5
 5 But behold, hearken ye unto me, and know that by the help of
the all-powerful Creator of heaven and earth I can tell you
concerning your thoughts, how that ye are beginning to labor in
sin, which sin appeareth very abominable unto me, yea, and
abominable unto God.

Jacob 2:6
 6 Yea, it grieveth my soul and causeth me to shrink with shame
before the presence of my Maker, that I must testify unto you
concerning the wickedness of your hearts.

Jacob 2:7
 7 And also it grieveth me that I must use so much boldness of
speech concerning you, before your wives and your children, many
of whose feelings are exceedingly tender and chaste and delicate
before God, which thing is pleasing unto God;

Jacob 2:8
 8 And it supposeth me that they have come up hither to hear the
pleasing word of God, yea, the word which healeth the wounded
soul.

Jacob 2:9
 9 Wherefore, it burdeneth my soul that I should be constrained,
because of the strict commandment which I have received from God,
to admonish you according to your crimes, to enlarge the wounds
of those who are already wounded, instead of consoling and
healing their wounds; and those who have not been wounded,
instead of feasting upon the pleasing word of God have daggers
placed to pierce their souls and wound their delicate minds.

Jacob 2:10
 10 But, notwithstanding the greatness of the task, I must do
according to the strict commands of God, and tell you concerning
your wickedness and abominations, in the presence of the pure in
heart, and the broken heart, and under the glance of the piercing
eye of the Almighty God.

Jacob 2:11
 11 Wherefore, I must tell you the truth according to the
plainness of the word of God.  For behold, as I inquired of the
Lord, thus came the word unto me, saying:  Jacob, get thou up
into the temple on the morrow, and declare the word which I shall
give thee unto this people.

Jacob 2:12
 12 And now behold, my brethren, this is the word which I declare
unto you, that many of you have begun to search for gold, and for
silver, and for all manner of precious ores, in the which this
land, which is a land of promise unto you and to your seed, doth
abound most plentifully.

Jacob 2:13
 13 And the hand of providence hath smiled upon you most
pleasingly, that you have obtained many riches; and because some
of you have obtained more abundantly than that of your brethren
ye are lifted up in the pride of your hearts, and wear stiff
necks and high heads because of the costliness of your apparel,
and persecute your brethren because ye suppose that ye are better
than they.

Jacob 2:14
 14 And now, my brethren, do ye suppose that God justifieth you
in this thing?  Behold, I say unto you, Nay.  But he condemneth
you, and if ye persist in these things his judgments must
speedily come unto you.

Jacob 2:15
 15 O that he would show you that he can pierce you, and with one
glance of his eye he can smite you to the dust!

Jacob 2:16
 16 O that he would rid you from this iniquity and abomination. 
And, O that ye would listen unto the word of his commands, and
let not this pride of your hearts destroy your souls!

Jacob 2:17
 17 Think of your brethren like unto yourselves, and be familiar
with all and free with your substance, that they may be rich like
unto you.

Jacob 2:18
 18 But before ye seek for riches, seek ye for the kingdom of
God.

Jacob 2:19
 19 And after ye have obtained a hope in Christ ye shall obtain
riches, if ye seek them; and ye will seek them for the intent to
do good--to clothe the naked, and to feed the hungry, and to
liberate the captive, and administer relief to the sick and the
afflicted.

Jacob 2:20
 20 And now, my brethren, I have spoken unto you concerning
pride; and those of you which have afflicted your neighbor, and
persecuted him because ye were proud in your hearts, of the
things which God hath given you, what say ye of it?

Jacob 2:21
 21 Do ye not suppose that such things are abominable unto him
who created all flesh?  And the one being is as precious in his
sight as the other.  And all flesh is of the dust; and for the
selfsame end hath he created them, that they should keep his
commandments and glorify him forever.

Jacob 2:22
 22 And now I make an end of speaking unto you concerning this
pride.  And were it not that I must speak unto you concerning a
grosser crime, my heart would rejoice exceedingly because of you.

Jacob 2:23
 23 But the word of God burdens me because of your grosser
crimes.  For behold, thus saith the Lord: This people begin to
wax in iniquity; they understand not the scriptures, for they
seek to excuse themselves in committing whoredoms, because of the
things which were written concerning David, and Solomon his son.

Jacob 2:24
 24 Behold, David and Solomon truly had many wives and
concubines, which thing was abominable before me, saith the Lord.

Jacob 2:25
 25 Wherefore, thus saith the Lord, I have led this people forth
out of the land of Jerusalem, by the power of mine arm, that I
might raise up unto me a righteous branch from the fruit of the
loins of Joseph.

Jacob 2:26
 26 Wherefore, I the Lord God will not suffer that this people
shall do like unto them of old.

Jacob 2:27
 27 Wherefore, my brethren, hear me, and hearken to the word of
the Lord: For there shall not any man among you have save it be
one wife; and concubines he shall have none;

Jacob 2:28
 28 For I, the Lord God, delight in the chastity of women.  And
whoredoms are an abomination before me; thus saith the Lord of
Hosts.

Jacob 2:29
 29 Wherefore, this people shall keep my commandments, saith the
Lord of Hosts, or cursed be the land for their sakes.

Jacob 2:30
 30 For if I will, saith the Lord of Hosts, raise up seed unto
me, I will command my people; otherwise they shall hearken unto
these things.

Jacob 2:31
 31 For behold, I, the Lord, have seen the sorrow, and heard the
mourning of the daughters of my people in the land of Jerusalem,
yea, and in all the lands of my people, because of the wickedness
and abominations of their husbands.

Jacob 2:32
 32 And I will not suffer, saith the Lord of Hosts, that the
cries of the fair daughters of this people, which I have led out
of the land of Jerusalem, shall come up unto me against the men
of my people, saith the Lord of Hosts.

Jacob 2:33
 33 For they shall not lead away captive the daughters of my
people because of their tenderness, save I shall visit them with
a sore curse, even unto destruction; for they shall not commit
whoredoms, like unto them of old, saith the Lord of Hosts.

Jacob 2:34
 34 And now behold, my brethren, ye know that these commandments
were given to our father, Lehi; wherefore, ye have known them
before; and ye have come unto great condemnation; for ye have
done these things which ye ought not to have done.

Jacob 2:35
 35 Behold, ye have done greater iniquities than the Lamanites,
our brethren.  Ye have broken the hearts of your tender wives,
and lost the confidence of your children, because of your bad
examples before them; and the sobbings of their hearts ascend up
to God against you.  And because of the strictness of the word of
God, which cometh down against you, many hearts died, pierced
with deep wounds.

Jacob 3
Chapter 3

Jacob 3:1
 1 But behold, I, Jacob, would speak unto you that are pure in
heart.  Look unto God with firmness of mind, and pray unto him
with exceeding faith, and he will console you in your
afflictions, and he will plead your cause, and send down justice
upon those who seek your destruction.

Jacob 3:2
 2 O all ye that are pure in heart, lift up your heads and
receive the pleasing word of God, and feast upon his love; for ye
may, if your minds are firm, forever.

Jacob 3:3
 3 But, wo, wo, unto you that are not pure in heart, that are
filthy this day before God; for except ye repent the land is
cursed for your sakes; and the Lamanites, which are not filthy
like unto you, nevertheless they are cursed with a sore cursing,
shall scourge you even unto destruction.

Jacob 3:4
 4 And the time speedily cometh, that except ye repent they shall
possess the land of your inheritance, and the Lord God will lead
away the righteous out from among you.

Jacob 3:5
 5 Behold, the Lamanites your brethren, whom ye hate because of
their filthiness and the cursing which hath come upon their
skins, are more righteous than you; for they have not forgotten
the commandment of the Lord, which was given unto our
father--that they should have save it were one wife, and
concubines they should have none, and there should not be
whoredoms committed among them.

Jacob 3:6
 6 And now, this commandment they observe to keep; wherefore,
because of this observance, in keeping this commandment, the Lord
God will not destroy them, but will be merciful unto them; and
one day they shall become a blessed people.

Jacob 3:7
 7 Behold, their husbands love their wives, and their wives love
their husbands; and their husbands and their wives love their
children; and their unbelief and their hatred towards you is
because of the iniquity of their fathers; wherefore, how much
better are you than they, in the sight of your great Creator?

Jacob 3:8
 8 O my brethren, I fear that unless ye shall repent of your sins
that their skins will be whiter than yours, when ye shall be
brought with them before the throne of God.

Jacob 3:9
 9 Wherefore, a commandment I give unto you, which is the word of
God, that ye revile no more against them because of the darkness
of their skins; neither shall ye revile against them because of
their filthiness; but ye shall remember your own filthiness, and
remember that their filthiness came because of their fathers.

Jacob 3:10
 10 Wherefore, ye shall remember your children, how that ye have
grieved their hearts because of the example that ye have set
before them; and also, remember that ye may, because of your
filthiness, bring your children unto destruction, and their sins
be heaped upon your heads at the last day.

Jacob 3:11
 11 O my brethren, hearken unto my words; arouse the faculties of
your souls; shake yourselves that ye may awake from the slumber
of death; and loose yourselves from the pains of hell that ye may
not become angels to the devil, to be cast into that lake of fire
and brimstone which is the second death.

Jacob 3:12
 12 And now I, Jacob, spake many more things unto the people of
Nephi, warning them against fornication and lasciviousness, and
every kind of sin, telling them the awful consequences of them.

Jacob 3:13
 13 And a hundredth part of the proceedings of this people, which
now began to be numerous, cannot be written upon these plates;
but many of their proceedings are written upon the larger plates,
and their wars, and their contentions, and the reigns of their
kings.

Jacob 3:14
 14 These plates are called the plates of Jacob, and they were
made by the hand of Nephi.  And I make an end of speaking these
words.

Jacob 4
Chapter 4

Jacob 4:1
 1 Now behold, it came to pass that I, Jacob, having ministered
much unto my people in word, (and I cannot write but a little of
my words, because of the difficulty of engraving our words upon
plates) and we know that the things which we write upon plates
must remain;

Jacob 4:2
 2 But whatsoever things we write upon anything save it be upon
plates must perish and vanish away; but we can write a few words
upon plates, which will give our children, and also our beloved
brethren, a small degree of knowledge concerning us, or
concerning their fathers--

Jacob 4:3
 3 Now in this thing we do rejoice; and we labor diligently to
engraven these words upon plates, hoping that our beloved
brethren and our children will receive them with thankful hearts,
and look upon them that they may learn with joy and not with
sorrow, neither with contempt, concerning their first parents.

Jacob 4:4
 4 For, for this intent have we written these things, that they
may know that we knew of Christ, and we had a hope of his glory
many hundred years before his coming; and not only we ourselves
had a hope of his glory, but also all the holy prophets which
were before us.

Jacob 4:5
 5 Behold, they believed in Christ and worshiped the Father in
his name, and also we worship the Father in his name.  And for
this intent we keep the law of Moses, it pointing our souls to
him; and for this cause it is sanctified unto us for
righteousness, even as it was accounted unto Abraham in the
wilderness to be obedient unto the commands of God in offering up
his son Isaac, which is a similitude of God and his Only Begotten
Son.

Jacob 4:6
 6 Wherefore, we search the prophets, and we have many
revelations and the spirit of prophecy; and having all these
witnesses we obtain a hope, and our faith becometh unshaken,
insomuch that we truly can command in the name of Jesus and the
very trees obey us, or the mountains, or the waves of the sea.

Jacob 4:7
 7 Nevertheless, the Lord God showeth us our weakness that we may
know that it is by his grace, and his great condescensions unto
the children of men, that we have power to do these things.

Jacob 4:8
 8 Behold, great and marvelous are the works of the Lord.  How
unsearchable are the depths of the mysteries of him; and it is
impossible that man should find out all his ways.  And no man
knoweth of his ways save it be revealed unto him; wherefore,
brethren, despise not the revelations of God.

Jacob 4:9
 9 For behold, by the power of his word man came upon the face of
the earth, which earth was created by the power of his word. 
Wherefore, if God being able to speak and the world was, and to
speak and man was created, O then, why not able to command the
earth, or the workmanship of his hands upon the face of it,
according to his will and pleasure?

Jacob 4:10
 10 Wherefore, brethren, seek not to counsel the Lord, but to
take counsel from his hand.  For behold, ye yourselves know that
he counseleth in wisdom, and in justice, and in great mercy, over
all his works.

Jacob 4:11
 11 Wherefore, beloved brethren, be reconciled unto him through
the atonement of Christ, his Only Begotten Son, and ye may obtain
a resurrection, according to the power of the resurrection which
is in Christ, and be presented as the first-fruits of Christ unto
God, having faith, and obtained a good hope of glory in him
before he manifesteth himself in the flesh.

Jacob 4:12
 12 And now, beloved, marvel not that I tell you these things;
for why not speak of the atonement of Christ, and attain to a
perfect knowledge of him, as to attain to the knowledge of a
resurrection and the world to come?

Jacob 4:13
 13 Behold, my brethren, he that prophesieth, let him prophesy to
the understanding of men; for the Spirit speaketh the truth and
lieth not.  Wherefore, it speaketh of things as they really are,
and of things as they really will be; wherefore, these things are
manifested unto us plainly, for the salvation of our souls.  But
behold, we are not witnesses alone in these things; for God also
spake them unto prophets of old.

Jacob 4:14
 14 But behold, the Jews were a stiffnecked people; and they
despised the words of plainness, and killed the prophets, and
sought for things that they could not understand.  Wherefore,
because of their blindness, which blindness came by looking
beyond the mark, they must needs fall; for God hath taken away
his plainness from them, and delivered unto them many things
which they cannot understand, because they desired it.  And
because they desired it God hath done it, that they may stumble.

Jacob 4:15
 15 And now I, Jacob, am led on by the Spirit unto prophesying;
for I perceive by the workings of the Spirit which is in me, that
by the stumbling of the Jews they will reject the stone upon
which they might build and have safe foundation.

Jacob 4:16
 16 But behold, according to the scriptures, this stone shall
become the great, and the last, and the only sure foundation,
upon which the Jews can build.

Jacob 4:17
 17 And now, my beloved, how is it possible that these, after
having rejected the sure foundation, can ever build upon it, that
it may become the head of their corner?

Jacob 4:18
 18 Behold, my beloved brethren, I will unfold this mystery unto
you; if I do not, by any means, get shaken from my firmness in
the Spirit, and stumble because of my over anxiety for you.

Jacob 5
Chapter 5

Jacob 5:1
 1 Behold, my brethren, do ye not remember to have read the words
of the prophet Zenos, which he spake unto the house of Israel,
saying:




Jacob 6
Chapter 6

Jacob 6:1
 1 And now, behold, my brethren, as I said unto you that I would
prophesy, behold, this is my prophecy--that the things which this
prophet Zenos spake, concerning the house of Israel, in the which
he likened them unto a tame olive-tree, must surely come to pass.

Jacob 6:2
 2 And the day that he shall set his hand again the second time
to recover his people, is the day, yea, even the last time, that
the servants of the Lord shall go forth in his power, to nourish
and prune his vineyard; and after that the end soon cometh.

Jacob 6:3
 3 And how blessed are they who have labored diligently in his
vineyard; and how cursed are they who shall be cast out into
their own place!  And the world shall be burned with fire.

Jacob 6:4
 4 And how merciful is our God unto us, for he remembereth the
house of Israel, both roots and branches; and he stretches forth
his hands unto them all the day long; and they are a stiffnecked
and a gainsaying people; but as many as will not harden their
hearts shall be saved in the kingdom of God.

Jacob 6:5
 5 Wherefore, my beloved brethren, I beseech of you in words of
soberness that ye would repent, and come with full purpose of
heart, and cleave unto God as he cleaveth unto you.  And while
his arm of mercy is extended towards you in the light of the day,
harden not your hearts.

Jacob 6:6
 6 Yea, today, if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts;
for why will ye die?

Jacob 6:7
 7 For behold, after ye have been nourished by the good word of
God all the day long, will ye bring forth evil fruit, that ye
must be hewn down and cast into the fire?

Jacob 6:8
 8 Behold, will ye reject these words?  Will ye reject the words
of the prophets; and will ye reject all the words which have been
spoken concerning Christ, after so many have spoken concerning
him; and deny the good word of Christ, and the power of God, and
the gift of the Holy Ghost, and quench the Holy Spirit, and make
a mock of the great plan of redemption, which hath been laid for
you?

Jacob 6:9
 9 Know ye not that if ye will do these things, that the power of
the redemption and the resurrection, which is in Christ, will
bring you to stand with shame and awful guilt before the bar of
God?

Jacob 6:10
 10 And according to the power of justice, for justice cannot be
denied, ye must go away into that lake of fire and brimstone,
whose flames are unquenchable, and whose smoke ascendeth up
forever and ever, which lake of fire and brimstone is endless
torment.

Jacob 6:11
 11 O then, my beloved brethren, repent ye, and enter in at the
strait gate, and continue in the way which is narrow, until ye
shall obtain eternal life.

Jacob 6:12
 12 O be wise; what can I say more?

Jacob 6:13
 13 Finally, I bid you farewell, until I shall meet you before
the pleasing bar of God, which bar striketh the wicked with awful
dread and fear.  Amen.


Jacob 7
Chapter 7

Jacob 7:1
 1 And now it came to pass after some years had passed away,
there came a man among the people of Nephi, whose name was
Sherem.

Jacob 7:2
 2 And it came to pass that he began to preach among the people,
and to declare unto them that there should be no Christ.  And he
preached many things which were flattering unto the people; and
this he did that he might overthrow the doctrine of Christ.

Jacob 7:3
 3 And he labored diligently that he might lead away the hearts
of the people, insomuch that he did lead away many hearts; and he
knowing that I, Jacob, had faith in Christ who should come, he
sought much opportunity that he might come unto me.

Jacob 7:4
 4 And he was learned, that he had a perfect knowledge of the
language of the people; wherefore, he could use much flattery,
and much power of speech, according to the power of the devil.

Jacob 7:5
 5 And he had hope to shake me from the faith, notwithstanding
the many revelations and the many things which I had seen
concerning these things; for I truly had seen angels, and they
had ministered unto me.  And also, I had heard the voice of the
Lord speaking unto me in very word, from time to time; wherefore,
I could not be shaken.

Jacob 7:6
 6 And it came to pass that he came unto me, and on this wise did
he speak unto me, saying:





 And after this manner did Sherem contend against me.

Jacob 7:8
 8 But behold, the Lord God poured in his Spirit into my soul,
insomuch that I did confound him in all his words.

Jacob 7:9
 9 And I said unto him: Deniest thou the Christ who shall come? 
And he said: If there should be a Christ, I would not deny him;
but I know that there is no Christ, neither has been, nor ever
will be.

Jacob 7:10
 10 And I said unto him: Believest thou the scriptures?  And he
said, Yea.

Jacob 7:11
 11 And I said unto him: Then ye do not understand them; for they
truly testify of Christ.  Behold, I say unto you that none of the
prophets have written, nor prophesied, save they have spoken
concerning this Christ.

Jacob 7:12
 12 And this is not all--it has been made manifest unto me, for I
have heard and seen; and it also has been made manifest unto me
by the power of the Holy Ghost; wherefore, I know if there should
be no atonement made all mankind must be lost.

Jacob 7:13
 13 And it came to pass that he said unto me: Show me a sign by
this power of the Holy Ghost, in the which ye know so much.

Jacob 7:14
 14 And I said unto him: What am I that I should tempt God to
show unto thee a sign in the thing which thou knowest to be true?

Yet thou wilt deny it, because thou art of the devil. 
Nevertheless, not my will be done; but if God shall smite thee,
let that be a sign unto thee that he has power, both in heaven
and in earth; and also, that Christ shall come.  And thy will, O
Lord, be done, and not mine.

Jacob 7:15
 15 And it came to pass that when I, Jacob, had spoken these
words, the power of the Lord came upon him, insomuch that he fell
to the earth.  And it came to pass that he was nourished for the
space of many days.

Jacob 7:16
 16 And it came to pass that he said unto the people: Gather
together on the morrow, for I shall die; wherefore, I desire to
speak unto the people before I shall die.

Jacob 7:17
 17 And it came to pass that on the morrow the multitude were
gathered together; and he spake plainly unto them and denied the
things which he had taught them, and confessed the Christ, and
the power of the Holy Ghost, and the ministering of angels.

Jacob 7:18
 18 And he spake plainly unto them, that he had been deceived by
the power of the devil.  And he spake of hell, and of eternity,
and of eternal punishment.

Jacob 7:19
 19 And he said:

 


 
Jacob 7:20
 20 And it came to pass that when he had said these words he
could say no more, and he gave up the ghost.

Jacob 7:21
 21 And when the multitude had witnessed that he spake these
things as he was about to give up the ghost, they were astonished
exceedingly; insomuch that the power of God came down upon them,
and they were overcome that they fell to the earth.

Jacob 7:22
 22 Now, this thing was pleasing unto me, Jacob, for I had
requested it of my Father who was in heaven; for he had heard my
cry and answered my prayer.

Jacob 7:23
 23 And it came to pass that peace and the love of God was
restored again among the people; and they searched the
scriptures, and hearkened no more to the words of this wicked
man.

Jacob 7:24
 24 And it came to pass that many means were devised to reclaim
and restore the Lamanites to the knowledge of the truth; but it
all was vain, for they delighted in wars and bloodshed, and they
had an eternal hatred against us, their brethren.  And they
sought by the power of their arms to destroy us continually.

Jacob 7:25
 25 Wherefore, the people of Nephi did fortify against them with
their arms, and with all their might, trusting in the God and
rock of their salvation; wherefore, they became as yet,
conquerors of their enemies.

Jacob 7:26
 26 And it came to pass that I, Jacob, began to be old; and the
record of this people being kept on the other plates of Nephi,
wherefore, I conclude this record, declaring that I have written
according to the best of my knowledge, by saying that the time
passed away with us, and also our lives passed away like as it
were unto us a dream, we being a lonesome and a solemn people,
wanderers, cast out from Jerusalem, born in tribulation, in a
wilderness, and hated of our brethren, which caused wars and
contentions; wherefore, we did mourn out our days.

Jacob 7:27
 27 And I, Jacob, saw that I must soon go down to my grave;
wherefore, I said unto my son Enos: Take these plates.  And I
told him the things which my brother Nephi had commanded me, and
he promised obedience unto the commands.  And I make an end of my
writing upon these plates, which writing has been small; and to
the reader I bid farewell, hoping that many of my brethren may
read my words.  Brethren, adieu.