Why did ye not
come to the feast on that great day when I made a feast unto my
sons, and unto my people?

Alma 20:10
 10 And he also said: Whither art thou going with this Nephite,
who is one of the children of a liar?



Lamoni, thou art going to deliver these Nephites, who are
sons of a liar.  Behold, he robbed our fathers; and now his
children are also come amongst us that they may, by their cunning
and their lyings, deceive us, that they again may rob us of our
property.

I know that if I should slay my son, that I should
shed innocent blood; for it is thou that hast sought to destroy
him.

If thou
wilt spare me I will grant unto thee whatsoever thou wilt ask,
even to half of the kingdom.


Because this is all that thou
hast desired, that I would release thy brethren, and suffer that
my son Lamoni should retain his kingdom, behold, I will grant
unto you that my son may retain his kingdom from this time and
forever; and I will govern him no more--

Alma 20:27
 27 And I will also grant unto thee that thy brethren may be cast
out of prison, and thou and thy brethren may come unto me, in my
kingdom; for I shall greatly desire to see thee.


Arise, for I will grant
unto you your lives, and I will not suffer that ye shall be my
servants; but I will insist that ye shall administer unto me; for
I have been somewhat troubled in mind because of the generosity
and the greatness of the words of thy brother Ammon; and I desire
to know the cause why he has not come up out of Middoni with
thee.


What is this that ye have said
concerning the Spirit of the Lord?  Behold, this is the thing
which doth trouble me.

Alma 22:6
 6 And also, what is this that Ammon said--If ye will repent ye
shall be saved, and if ye will not repent, ye shall be cast off
at the last day?

I know that the Amalekites
say that there is a God, and I have granted unto them that they
should build sanctuaries, that they may assemble themselves
together to worship him.  And if now thou sayest there is a God,
behold I will believe.









