Samuel, Samuel.

Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, at which both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle.
1 Samuel 3:12	In that day I will perform against Eli all [things] which I have spoken concerning his house: when I begin, I will also make an end.
1 Samuel 3:13	For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever for the iniquity which he knoweth; because his sons made themselves vile, and he restrained them not.
1 Samuel 3:14	And therefore I have sworn unto the house of Eli, that the iniquity of Eli’s house shall not be purged with sacrifice nor offering for ever.

Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them.
1 Samuel 8:8	According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even unto this day, wherewith they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also unto thee.
1 Samuel 8:9	Now therefore hearken unto their voice: howbeit yet protest solemnly unto them, and shew them the manner of the king that shall reign over them.

Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king.

To morrow about this time I will send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him [to be] captain over my people Israel, that he may save my people out of the hand of the Philistines: for I have looked upon my people, because their cry is come unto me.

Behold the man whom I spake to thee of! this same shall reign over my people.


1 Samuel 15:11	It repenteth me that I have set up Saul [to be] king: for he is turned back from following me, and hath not performed my commandments.

How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? fill thine horn with oil, and go, I will send thee to Jesse the Bethlehemite: for I have provided me a king among his sons.

Take an heifer with thee, and say, I am come to sacrifice to the LORD.
1 Samuel 16:3	And call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will shew thee what thou shalt do: and thou shalt anoint unto me [him] whom I name unto thee.

Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature; because I have refused him: for [the LORD seeth] not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the LORD looketh on the heart.

Arise, anoint him: for this [is] he.

Go, and smite the Philistines, and save Keilah.

Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will deliver the Philistines into thine hand.

He will come down.

They will deliver [thee] up.

Pursue: for thou shalt surely overtake [them], and without fail recover [all].







