Judah shall go up: behold, I have delivered the land into his hand.

Because that this people hath transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and have not hearkened unto my voice;
Judges 2:21	I also will not henceforth drive out any from before them of the nations which Joshua left when he died:
Judges 2:22	That through them I may prove Israel, whether they will keep the way of the LORD to walk therein, as their fathers did keep [it], or not.

I brought you up from Egypt, and brought you forth out of the house of bondage;
Judges 6:9	And I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that oppressed you, and drave them out from before you, and gave you their land;
Judges 6:10	And I said unto you, I [am] the LORD your God; fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell: but ye have not obeyed my voice.

Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel from the hand of the Midianites: have not I sent thee?

Surely I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man.

Peace [be] unto thee; fear not: thou shalt not die.

Take thy father’s young bullock, even the second bullock of seven years old, and throw down the altar of Baal that thy father hath, and cut down the grove that [is] by it:
Judges 6:26	And build an altar unto the LORD thy God upon the top of this rock, in the ordered place, and take the second bullock, and offer a burnt sacrifice with the wood of the grove which thou shalt cut down.

The people that [are] with thee [are] too many for me to give the Midianites into their hands, lest Israel vaunt themselves against me, saying, Mine own hand hath saved me.
Judges 7:3	Now therefore go to, proclaim in the ears of the people, saying, Whosoever [is] fearful and afraid, let him return and depart early from mount Gilead. 

The people [are] yet [too] many; bring them down unto the water, and I will try them for thee there: and it shall be, [that] of whom I say unto thee, This shall go with thee, the same shall go with thee; and of whomsoever I say unto thee, This shall not go with thee, the same shall not go.

Every one that lappeth of the water with his tongue, as a dog lappeth, him shalt thou set by himself; likewise every one that boweth down upon his knees to drink.

By the three hundred men that lapped will I save you, and deliver the Midianites into thine hand: and let all the [other] people go every man unto his place.

Arise, get thee down unto the host; for I have delivered it into thine hand.
Judges 7:10	But if thou fear to go down, go thou with Phurah thy servant down to the host:
Judges 7:11	And thou shalt hear what they say; and afterward shall thine hands be strengthened to go down unto the host.







