Let there be light:

Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters.


Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together unto one place, and let the dry [land] appear:


Genesis 1:10	And God called the dry [land] Earth; and the gathering together of the waters called he Seas: and God saw that [it was] good.
Genesis 1:11	And God said,

Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, [and] the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed [is] in itself, upon the earth:

Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days, and years:
Genesis 1:15	And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth: and it was so.

Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving creature that hath life, and fowl [that] may fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven.

Genesis 1:21	And God created great whales, and every living creature that moveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after their kind, and every winged fowl after his kind: and God saw that [it was] good.
Genesis 1:22	And God blessed them, saying,


Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply in the earth.


Let the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle, and creeping thing, and beast of the earth after his kind:


Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.

Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth.

Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed, which [is] upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in the which [is] the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for meat.
Genesis 1:30	And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air, and to every thing that creepeth upon the earth, wherein [there is] life, [I have given] every green herb for meat:

Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat:
Genesis 2:17	But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die.
[It is] not good that the man should be alone; I will make him an help meet for him.

Where [art] thou?



Who told thee that thou [wast] naked? Hast thou eaten of the tree, whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat?

What [is] this [that] thou hast done?


Because thou hast done this, thou [art] cursed above all cattle, and above every beast of the field; upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the days of thy life:
Genesis 3:15	And I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed; it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel.


I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy conception; in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children; and thy desire [shall be] to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee.

Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree, of which I commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat of it: cursed [is] the ground for thy sake; in sorrow shalt thou eat [of] it all the days of thy life;
Genesis 3:18	Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee; and thou shalt eat the herb of the field;
Genesis 3:19	In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou return unto the ground; for out of it wast thou taken: for dust thou [art], and unto dust shalt thou return.


Behold, the man is become as one of us, to know good and evil: and now, lest he put forth his hand, and take also of the tree of life, and eat, and live for ever:


Why art thou wroth? and why is thy countenance fallen?
Genesis 4:7	If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? and if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door. And unto thee [shall be] his desire, and thou shalt rule over him.


 Where [is] Abel thy brother?

What hast thou done? the voice of thy brother’s blood crieth unto me from the ground.
Genesis 4:11	And now [art] thou cursed from the earth, which hath opened her mouth to receive thy brother’s blood from thy hand;
Genesis 4:12	When thou tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield unto thee her strength; a fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth.

Therefore whosoever slayeth Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold.


My spirit shall not always strive with man, for that he also [is] flesh: yet his days shall be an hundred and twenty years.


I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth; both man, and beast, and the creeping thing, and the fowls of the air; for it repenteth me that I have made them.

 The end of all flesh is come before me; for the earth is filled with violence through them; and, behold, I will destroy them with the earth.
Genesis 6:14	Make thee an ark of gopher wood; rooms shalt thou make in the ark, and shalt pitch it within and without with pitch.
Genesis 6:15	And this [is the fashion] which thou shalt make it [of]: The length of the ark [shall be] three hundred cubits, the breadth of it fifty cubits, and the height of it thirty cubits.
Genesis 6:16	A window shalt thou make to the ark, and in a cubit shalt thou finish it above; and the door of the ark shalt thou set in the side thereof; [with] lower, second, and third [stories] shalt thou make it.
Genesis 6:17	And, behold, I, even I, do bring a flood of waters upon the earth, to destroy all flesh, wherein [is] the breath of life, from under heaven; [and] every thing that [is] in the earth shall die.
Genesis 6:18	But with thee will I establish my covenant; and thou shalt come into the ark, thou, and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy sons’ wives with thee.
Genesis 6:19	And of every living thing of all flesh, two of every [sort] shalt thou bring into the ark, to keep [them] alive with thee; they shall be male and female.
Genesis 6:20	Of fowls after their kind, and of cattle after their kind, of every creeping thing of the earth after his kind, two of every [sort] shall come unto thee, to keep [them] alive.
Genesis 6:21	And take thou unto thee of all food that is eaten, and thou shalt gather [it] to thee; and it shall be for food for thee, and for them.

Come thou and all thy house into the ark; for thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation.
Genesis 7:2	Of every clean beast thou shalt take to thee by sevens, the male and his female: and of beasts that [are] not clean by two, the male and his female.
Genesis 7:3	Of fowls also of the air by sevens, the male and the female; to keep seed alive upon the face of all the earth.
Genesis 7:4	For yet seven days, and I will cause it to rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights; and every living substance that I have made will I destroy from off the face of the earth.


Genesis 8:16	Go forth of the ark, thou, and thy wife, and thy sons, and thy sons’ wives with thee.
Genesis 8:17	Bring forth with thee every living thing that [is] with thee, of all flesh, [both] of fowl, and of cattle, and of every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth; that they may breed abundantly in the earth, and be fruitful, and multiply upon the earth.

I will not again curse the ground any more for man’s sake; for the imagination of man’s heart [is] evil from his youth; neither will I again smite any more every thing living, as I have done.
Genesis 8:22	While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease.

Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth.
Genesis 9:2	And the fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth, and upon every fowl of the air, upon all that moveth [upon] the earth, and upon all the fishes of the sea; into your hand are they delivered.
Genesis 9:3	Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you; even as the green herb have I given you all things.
Genesis 9:4	But flesh with the life thereof, [which is] the blood thereof, shall ye not eat.
Genesis 9:5	And surely your blood of your lives will I require; at the hand of every beast will I require it, and at the hand of man; at the hand of every man’s brother will I require the life of man.
Genesis 9:6	Whoso sheddeth man’s blood, by man shall his blood be shed: for in the image of God made he man.
Genesis 9:7	And you, be ye fruitful, and multiply; bring forth abundantly in the earth, and multiply therein.

Genesis 9:9	And I, behold, I establish my covenant with you, and with your seed after you;
Genesis 9:10	And with every living creature that [is] with you, of the fowl, of the cattle, and of every beast of the earth with you; from all that go out of the ark, to every beast of the earth.
Genesis 9:11	And I will establish my covenant with you; neither shall all flesh be cut off any more by the waters of a flood; neither shall there any more be a flood to destroy the earth.
Genesis 9:12	And God said, This [is] the token of the covenant which I make between me and you and every living creature that [is] with you, for perpetual generations:
Genesis 9:13	I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth.
Genesis 9:14	And it shall come to pass, when I bring a cloud over the earth, that the bow shall be seen in the cloud:
Genesis 9:15	And I will remember my covenant, which [is] between me and you and every living creature of all flesh; and the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all flesh.
Genesis 9:16	And the bow shall be in the cloud; and I will look upon it, that I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that [is] upon the earth.
Genesis 9:17	And God said unto Noah, This [is] the token of the covenant, which I have established between me and all flesh that [is] upon the earth.

Behold, the people [is] one, and they have all one language; and this they begin to do: and now nothing will be restrained from them, which they have imagined to do.
Genesis 11:7	Go to, let us go down, and there confound their language, that they may not understand one another’s speech.

Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father’s house, unto a land that I will shew thee:
Genesis 12:2	And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing:
Genesis 12:3	And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee: and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed.

Unto thy seed will I give this land:

after that Lot was separated from him, Lift up now thine eyes, and look from the place where thou art northward, and southward, and eastward, and westward:
Genesis 13:15	For all the land which thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed for ever.
Genesis 13:16	And I will make thy seed as the dust of the earth: so that if a man can number the dust of the earth, [then] shall thy seed also be numbered.
Genesis 13:17	Arise, walk through the land in the length of it and in the breadth of it; for I will give it unto thee.

Fear not, Abram: I [am] thy shield, [and] thy exceeding great reward.


This shall not be thine heir; but he that shall come forth out of thine own bowels shall be thine heir.

Look now toward heaven, and tell the stars, if thou be able to number them: and he said unto him, So shall thy seed be.

I [am] the LORD that brought thee out of Ur of the Chaldees, to give thee this land to inherit it.

Take me an heifer of three years old, and a she goat of three years old, and a ram of three years old, and a turtledove, and a young pigeon.


Know of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land [that is] not theirs, and shall serve them; and they shall afflict them four hundred years;
Genesis 15:14	And also that nation, whom they shall serve, will I judge: and afterward shall they come out with great substance.
Genesis 15:15	And thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace; thou shalt be buried in a good old age.
Genesis 15:16	But in the fourth generation they shall come hither again: for the iniquity of the Amorites [is] not yet full.


Unto thy seed have I given this land, from the river of Egypt unto the great river, the river Euphrates:
Genesis 15:19	The Kenites, and the Kenizzites, and the Kadmonites,
Genesis 15:20	And the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Rephaims,
Genesis 15:21	And the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Girgashites, and the Jebusites.


I [am] the Almighty God; walk before me, and be thou perfect.
Genesis 17:2	And I will make my covenant between me and thee, and will multiply thee exceedingly.

Genesis 17:4	As for me, behold, my covenant [is] with thee, and thou shalt be a father of many nations.
Genesis 17:5	Neither shall thy name any more be called Abram, but thy name shall be Abraham; for a father of many nations have I made thee.
Genesis 17:6	And I will make thee exceeding fruitful, and I will make nations of thee, and kings shall come out of thee.
Genesis 17:7	And I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed after thee in their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be a God unto thee, and to thy seed after thee.
Genesis 17:8	And I will give unto thee, and to thy seed after thee, the land wherein thou art a stranger, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession; and I will be their God.


Thou shalt keep my covenant therefore, thou, and thy seed after thee in their generations.
Genesis 17:10	This [is] my covenant, which ye shall keep, between me and you and thy seed after thee; Every man child among you shall be circumcised.
Genesis 17:11	And ye shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin; and it shall be a token of the covenant betwixt me and you.
Genesis 17:12	And he that is eight days old shall be circumcised among you, every man child in your generations, he that is born in the house, or bought with money of any stranger, which [is] not of thy seed.
Genesis 17:13	He that is born in thy house, and he that is bought with thy money, must needs be circumcised: and my covenant shall be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant.
Genesis 17:14	And the uncircumcised man child whose flesh of his foreskin is not circumcised, that soul shall be cut off from his people; he hath broken my covenant.

As for Sarai thy wife, thou shalt not call her name Sarai, but Sarah [shall] her name [be].
Genesis 17:16	And I will bless her, and give thee a son also of her: yea, I will bless her, and she shall be [a mother] of nations; kings of people shall be of her.

Sarah thy wife shall bear thee a son indeed; and thou shalt call his name Isaac: and I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant, [and] with his seed after him.
Genesis 17:20	And as for Ishmael, I have heard thee: Behold, I have blessed him, and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly; twelve princes shall he beget, and I will make him a great nation.
Genesis 17:21	But my covenant will I establish with Isaac, which Sarah shall bear unto thee at this set time in the next year.

 Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I of a surety bear a child, which am old?
Genesis 18:14	Is any thing too hard for the LORD? At the time appointed I will return unto thee, according to the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son.


Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I do;
Genesis 18:18	Seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him?
Genesis 18:19	For I know him, that he will command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the LORD, to do justice and judgment; that the LORD may bring upon Abraham that which he hath spoken of him.

Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and because their sin is very grievous;
Genesis 18:21	I will go down now, and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of it, which is come unto me; and if not, I will know.

If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sakes.


Behold, thou [art but] a dead man, for the woman which thou hast taken; for she [is] a man’s wife.


Yea, I know that thou didst this in the integrity of thy heart; for I also withheld thee from sinning against me: therefore suffered I thee not to touch her.
Genesis 20:7	Now therefore restore the man [his] wife; for he [is] a prophet, and he shall pray for thee, and thou shalt live: and if thou restore [her] not, know thou that thou shalt surely die, thou, and all that [are] thine.

Let it not be grievous in thy sight because of the lad, and because of thy bondwoman; in all that Sarah hath said unto thee, hearken unto her voice; for in Isaac shall thy seed be called.
Genesis 21:13	And also of the son of the bondwoman will I make a nation, because he [is] thy seed.
















