Ruth 1:1	Now it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled, that there was a famine in the land. And a certain man of Bethlehemjudah went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he, and his wife, and his two sons.
Ruth 1:2	And the name of the man [was] Elimelech, and the name of his wife Naomi, and the name of his two sons Mahlon and Chilion, Ephrathites of Bethlehemjudah. And they came into the country of Moab, and continued there.
Ruth 1:3	And Elimelech Naomi’s husband died; and she was left, and her two sons.
Ruth 1:4	And they took them wives of the women of Moab; the name of the one [was] Orpah, and the name of the other Ruth: and they dwelled there about ten years.
Ruth 1:5	And Mahlon and Chilion died also both of them; and the woman was left of her two sons and her husband.
Ruth 1:6	Then she arose with her daughters in law, that she might return from the country of Moab: for she had heard in the country of Moab how that the LORD had visited his people in giving them bread.
Ruth 1:7	Wherefore she went forth out of the place where she was, and her two daughters in law with her; and they went on the way to return unto the land of Judah.
Ruth 1:8	And Naomi said unto her two daughters in law, 
 Then she kissed them; and they lifted up their voice, and wept.
Ruth 1:10	And they said unto her, Surely we will return with thee unto thy people.
Ruth 1:11	And Naomi said, 

Ruth 1:14	And they lifted up their voice, and wept again: and Orpah kissed her mother in law; but Ruth clave unto her.
Ruth 1:15	And she said, 

Ruth 1:16	And Ruth said, 

Ruth 1:18	When she saw that she was stedfastly minded to go with her, then she left speaking unto her.
Ruth 1:19	So they two went until they came to Bethlehem. And it came to pass, when they were come to Bethlehem, that all the city was moved about them, and they said, [Is] this Naomi?
Ruth 1:20	And she said unto them, 

Ruth 1:22	So Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabitess, her daughter in law, with her, which returned out of the country of Moab: and they came to Bethlehem in the beginning of barley harvest.
Ruth 2:1	And Naomi had a kinsman of her husband’s, a mighty man of wealth, of the family of Elimelech; and his name [was] Boaz.
Ruth 2:2	And Ruth the Moabitess said unto Naomi, 
And she said unto her, 

Ruth 2:3	And she went, and came, and gleaned in the field after the reapers: and her hap was to light on a part of the field [belonging] unto Boaz, who [was] of the kindred of Elimelech.
Ruth 2:4	And, behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem, and said unto the reapers, 
And they answered him, The LORD bless thee.
Ruth 2:5	Then said Boaz unto his servant that was set over the reapers, 

Ruth 2:6	And the servant that was set over the reapers answered and said, It [is] the Moabitish damsel that came back with Naomi out of the country of Moab:
Ruth 2:7	And she said, 
 so she came, and hath continued even from the morning until now, that she tarried a little in the house.
Ruth 2:8	Then said Boaz unto Ruth, 

Ruth 2:10	Then she fell on her face, and bowed herself to the ground, and said unto him, 

Ruth 2:11	And Boaz answered and said unto her, 

Ruth 2:13	Then she said, 

Ruth 2:14	And Boaz said unto her, 
And she sat beside the reapers: and he reached her parched [corn], and she did eat, and was sufficed, and left.
Ruth 2:15	And when she was risen up to glean, Boaz commanded his young men, saying, 

Ruth 2:17	So she gleaned in the field until even, and beat out that she had gleaned: and it was about an ephah of barley.
Ruth 2:18	And she took [it] up, and went into the city: and her mother in law saw what she had gleaned: and she brought forth, and gave to her that she had reserved after she was sufficed.
Ruth 2:19	And her mother in law said unto her, 
 And she shewed her mother in law with whom she had wrought, and said, The man’s name with whom I wrought to day [is] Boaz.
Ruth 2:20	And Naomi said unto her daughter in law, 
 And Naomi said unto her, 

Ruth 2:21	And Ruth the Moabitess said, 

Ruth 2:22	And Naomi said unto Ruth her daughter in law, 

Ruth 2:23	So she kept fast by the maidens of Boaz to glean unto the end of barley harvest and of wheat harvest; and dwelt with her mother in law.
Ruth 3:1	Then Naomi her mother in law said unto her, 

Ruth 3:5	And she said unto her, 

Ruth 3:6	And she went down unto the floor, and did according to all that her mother in law bade her.
Ruth 3:7	And when Boaz had eaten and drunk, and his heart was merry, he went to lie down at the end of the heap of corn: and she came softly, and uncovered his feet, and laid her down.
Ruth 3:8	And it came to pass at midnight, that the man was afraid, and turned himself: and, behold, a woman lay at his feet.
Ruth 3:9	And he said, 
 And she answered, 

Ruth 3:10	And he said, 

Ruth 3:11	And now, my daughter, fear not; 

Ruth 3:14	And she lay at his feet until the morning: and she rose up before one could know another. And he said, 

Ruth 3:15	Also he said, 
 And when she held it, he measured six [measures] of barley, and laid [it] on her: and she went into the city.
Ruth 3:16	And when she came to her mother in law, she said, 
 And she told her all that the man had done to her.
Ruth 3:17	And she said, 

Ruth 3:18	Then said she, 

Ruth 4:1	Then went Boaz up to the gate, and sat him down there: and, behold, the kinsman of whom Boaz spake came by; unto whom he said, 
And he turned aside, and sat down.
Ruth 4:2	And he took ten men of the elders of the city, and said, Sit ye down here. And they sat down.
Ruth 4:3	And he said unto the kinsman, Naomi, that is come again out of the country of Moab, selleth a parcel of land, which [was] our brother Elimelech’s:
Ruth 4:4	And I thought to advertise thee, saying, 
 And he said, I will redeem [it].
Ruth 4:5	Then said Boaz, 

Ruth 4:6	And the kinsman said, I cannot redeem [it] for myself, lest I mar mine own inheritance: redeem thou my right to thyself; for I cannot redeem [it].
Ruth 4:7	Now this [was the manner] in former time in Israel concerning redeeming and concerning changing, for to confirm all things; a man plucked off his shoe, and gave [it] to his neighbour: and this [was] a testimony in Israel.
Ruth 4:8	Therefore the kinsman said unto Boaz, Buy [it] for thee. So he drew off his shoe.
Ruth 4:9	And Boaz said unto the elders, and [unto] all the people, 

Ruth 4:11	And all the people that [were] in the gate, and the elders, said, [We are] witnesses. The LORD make the woman that is come into thine house like Rachel and like Leah, which two did build the house of Israel: and do thou worthily in Ephratah, and be famous in Bethlehem:
Ruth 4:12	And let thy house be like the house of Pharez, whom Tamar bare unto Judah, of the seed which the LORD shall give thee of this young woman.
Ruth 4:13	So Boaz took Ruth, and she was his wife: and when he went in unto her, the LORD gave her conception, and she bare a son.
Ruth 4:14	And the women said unto Naomi, 

Ruth 4:16	And Naomi took the child, and laid it in her bosom, and became nurse unto it.
Ruth 4:17	And the women her neighbours gave it a name, saying, There is a son born to Naomi; and they called his name Obed: he [is] the father of Jesse, the father of David.
Ruth 4:18	Now these [are] the generations of Pharez: Pharez begat Hezron,
Ruth 4:19	And Hezron begat Ram, and Ram begat Amminadab,
Ruth 4:20	And Amminadab begat Nahshon, and Nahshon begat Salmon,
Ruth 4:21	And Salmon begat Boaz, and Boaz begat Obed,
Ruth 4:22	And Obed begat Jesse, and Jesse begat David.