Yea, I believe.

Yea, I believe all the words which thou hast
spoken.


Yea, I will keep thy commandments with all my
heart.




My dearly
beloved brother, Moroni, as well in the Lord as in the
tribulations of our warfare; behold, my beloved brother, I have
somewhat to tell you concerning our warfare in this part of the
land.

Alma 56:3
 3 Behold, two thousand of the sons of those men whom Ammon
brought down out of the land of Nephi--now ye have known that
these were descendants of Laman, who was the eldest son of our
father Lehi;

Alma 56:4
 4 Now I need not rehearse unto you concerning their traditions
or their unbelief, for thou knowest concerning all these things--

Alma 56:5
 5 Therefore it sufficeth me that I tell you that two thousand of
these young men have taken their weapons of war, and would that I
should be their leader; and we have come forth to defend our
country.

Alma 56:6
 6 And now ye also know concerning the covenant which their
fathers made, that they would not take up their weapons of war
against their brethren to shed blood.

Alma 56:7
 7 But in the twenty and sixth year, when they saw our
afflictions and our tribulations for them, they were about to
break the covenant which they had made and take up their weapons
of war in our defence.

Alma 56:8
 8 But I would not suffer them that they should break this
covenant which they had made, supposing that God would strengthen
us, insomuch that we should not suffer more because of the
fulfilling the oath which they had taken.

Alma 56:9
 9 But behold, here is one thing in which we may have great joy. 
For behold, in the twenty and sixth year, I, Helaman, did march
at the head of these two thousand young men to the city of Judea,
to assist Antipus, whom ye had appointed a leader over the people
of that part of the land.

Alma 56:10
 10 And I did join my two thousand sons, (for they are worthy to
be called sons) to the army of Antipus, in which strength Antipus
did rejoice exceedingly; for behold, his army had been reduced by
the Lamanites because their forces had slain a vast number of our
men, for which cause we have to mourn.

Alma 56:11
 11 Nevertheless, we may console ourselves in this point, that
they have died in the cause of their country and of their God,
yea, and they are happy.

Alma 56:12
 12 And the Lamanites had also retained many prisoners, all of
whom are chief captains, for none other have they spared alive. 
And we suppose that they are now at this time in the land of
Nephi; it is so if they are not slain.

Alma 56:13
 13 And now these are the cities of which the Lamanites have
obtained possession by the shedding of the blood of so many of
our valiant men:

Alma 56:14
 14 The land of Manti, or the city of Manti, and the city of
Zeezrom, and the city of Cumeni, and the city of Antiparah.

Alma 56:15
 15 And these are the cities which they possessed when I arrived
at the city of Judea; and I found Antipus and his men toiling
with their might to fortify the city.

Alma 56:16
 16 Yea, and they were depressed in body as well as in spirit,
for they had fought valiantly by day and toiled by night to
maintain their cities; and thus they had suffered great
afflictions of every kind.

Alma 56:17
 17 And now they were determined to conquer in this place or die;
therefore you may well suppose that this little force which I
brought with me, yea, those sons of mine, gave them great hopes
and much joy.

Alma 56:18
 18 And now it came to pass that when the Lamanites saw that
Antipus had received a greater strength to his army, they were
compelled by the orders of Ammoron to not come against the city
of Judea, or against us, to battle.

Alma 56:19
 19 And thus were we favored of the Lord; for had they come upon
us in this our weakness they might have perhaps destroyed our
little army; but thus were we preserved.

Alma 56:20
 20 They were commanded by Ammoron to maintain those cities which
they had taken.  And thus ended the twenty and sixth year.  And
in the commencement of the twenty and seventh year we had
prepared our city and ourselves for defence.

Alma 56:21
 21 Now we were desirous that the Lamanites should come upon us;
for we were not desirous to make an attack upon them in their
strongholds.

Alma 56:22
 22 And it came to pass that we kept spies out round about, to
watch the movements of the Lamanites, that they might not pass us
by night nor by day to make an attack upon our other cities which
were on the northward.

Alma 56:23
 23 For we knew in those cities they were not sufficiently strong
to meet them; therefore we were desirous, if they should pass by
us, to fall upon them in their rear, and thus bring them up in
the rear at the same time they were met in the front.  We
supposed that we could overpower them; but behold, we were
disappointed in this our desire.

Alma 56:24
 24 They durst not pass by us with their whole army, neither
durst they with a part, lest they should not be sufficiently
strong and they should fall.

Alma 56:25
 25 Neither durst they march down against the city of Zarahemla;
neither durst they cross the head of Sidon, over to the city of
Nephihah.

Alma 56:26
 26 And thus, with their forces, they were determined to maintain
those cities which they had taken.

Alma 56:27
 27 And now it came to pass in the second month of this year,
there was brought unto us many provisions from the fathers of
those my two thousand sons.

Alma 56:28
 28 And also there were sent two thousand men unto us from the
land of Zarahemla.  And thus we were prepared with ten thousand
men, and provisions for them, and also for their wives and their
children.

Alma 56:29
 29 And the Lamanites, thus seeing our forces increase daily, and
provisions arrive for our support, they began to be fearful, and
began to sally forth, if it were possible to put an end to our
receiving provisions and strength.

Alma 56:30
 30 Now when we saw that the Lamanites began to grow uneasy on
this wise, we were desirous to bring a stratagem into effect upon
them; therefore Antipus ordered that I should march forth with my
little sons to a neighboring city, as if we were carrying
provisions to a neighboring city.

Alma 56:31
 31 And we were to march near the city of Antiparah, as if we
were going to the city beyond, in the borders by the seashore.

Alma 56:32
 32 And it came to pass that we did march forth, as if with our
provisions, to go to that city.

Alma 56:33
 33 And it came to pass that Antipus did march forth with a part
of his army, leaving the remainder to maintain the city.  But he
did not march forth until I had gone forth with my little army,
and came near the city Antiparah.

Alma 56:34
 34 And now, in the city Antiparah were stationed the strongest
army of the Lamanites; yea, the most numerous.

Alma 56:35
 35 And it came to pass that when they had been informed by their
spies, they came forth with their army and marched against us.

Alma 56:36
 36 And it came to pass that we did flee before them, northward. 
And thus we did lead away the most powerful army of the
Lamanites;

Alma 56:37
 37 Yea, even to a considerable distance, insomuch that when they
saw the army of Antipus pursuing them, with their might, they did
not turn to the right nor to the left, but pursued their march in
a straight course after us; and, as we suppose, it was their
intent to slay us before Antipus should overtake them, and this
that they might not be surrounded by our people.

Alma 56:38
 38 And now Antipus, beholding our danger, did speed the march of
his army.  But behold, it was night; therefore they did not
overtake us, neither did Antipus overtake them; therefore we did
camp for the night.

Alma 56:39
 39 And it came to pass that before the dawn of the morning,
behold, the Lamanites were pursuing us.  Now we were not
sufficiently strong to contend with them; yea, I would not suffer
that my little sons should fall into their hands; therefore we
did continue our march, and we took our march into the
wilderness.

Alma 56:40
 40 Now they durst not turn to the right nor to the left lest
they should be surrounded; neither would I turn to the right nor
to the left lest they should overtake me, and we could not stand
against them, but be slain, and they would make their escape; and
thus we did flee all that day into the wilderness, even until it
was dark.

Alma 56:41
 41 And it came to pass that again, when the light of the morning
came we saw the Lamanites upon us, and we did flee before them.

Alma 56:42
 42 But it came to pass that they did not pursue us far before
they halted; and it was in the morning of the third day of the
seventh month.

Alma 56:43
 43 And now, whether they were overtaken by Antipus we knew not,
but I said unto my men: Behold, we know not but they have halted
for the purpose that we should come against them, that they might
catch us in their snare;

Alma 56:44
 44 Therefore what say ye, my sons, will ye go against them to
battle?

Alma 56:45
 45 And now I say unto you, my beloved brother Moroni, that never
had I seen so great courage, nay, not amongst all the Nephites.

Alma 56:46
 46 For as I had ever called them my sons (for they were all of
them very young) even so they said unto me: Father, behold our
God is with us, and he will not suffer that we should fall; then
let us go forth; we would not slay our brethren if they would let
us alone; therefore let us go, lest they should overpower the
army of Antipus.

Alma 56:47
 47 Now they never had fought, yet they did not fear death; and
they did think more upon the liberty of their fathers than they
did upon their lives; yea, they had been taught by their mothers,
that if they did not doubt, God would deliver them.

Alma 56:48
 48 And they rehearsed unto me the words of their mothers,
saying: We do not doubt our mothers knew it.

Alma 56:49
 49 And it came to pass that I did return with my two thousand
against these Lamanites who had pursued us.  And now behold, the
armies of Antipus had overtaken them, and a terrible battle had
commenced.

Alma 56:50
 50 The army of Antipus being weary, because of their long march
in so short a space of time, were about to fall into the hands of
the Lamanites; and had I not returned with my two thousand they
would have obtained their purpose.

Alma 56:51
 51 For Antipus had fallen by the sword, and many of his leaders,
because of their weariness, which was occasioned by the speed of
their march--therefore the men of Antipus, being confused because
of the fall of their leaders, began to give way before the
Lamanites.

Alma 56:52
 52 And it came to pass that the Lamanites took courage, and
began to pursue them; and thus were the Lamanites pursuing them
with great vigor when Helaman came upon their rear with his two
thousand, and began to slay them exceedingly, insomuch that the
whole army of the Lamanites halted and turned upon Helaman.

Alma 56:53
 53 Now when the people of Antipus saw that the Lamanites had
turned them about, they gathered together their men and came
again upon the rear of the Lamanites.

Alma 56:54
 54 And now it came to pass that we, the people of Nephi, the
people of Antipus, and I with my two thousand, did surround the
Lamanites, and did slay them; yea, insomuch that they were
compelled to deliver up their weapons of war and also themselves
as prisoners of war.

Alma 56:55
 55 And now it came to pass that when they had surrendered
themselves up unto us, behold, I numbered those young men who had
fought with me, fearing lest there were many of them slain.

Alma 56:56
 56 But behold, to my great joy, there had not one soul of them
fallen to the earth; yea, and they had fought as if with the
strength of God; yea, never were men known to have fought with
such miraculous strength; and with such mighty power did they
fall upon the Lamanites, that they did frighten them; and for
this cause did the Lamanites deliver themselves up as prisoners
of war.

Alma 56:57
 57 And as we had no place for our prisoners, that we could guard
them to keep them from the armies of the Lamanites, therefore we
sent them to the land of Zarahemla, and a part of those men who
were not slain of Antipus, with them; and the remainder I took
and joined them to my stripling Ammonites, and took our march
back to the city of Judea.

Alma 57
Chapter 57

Alma 57:1
 1 And now it came to pass that I received an epistle from
Ammoron, the king, stating that if I would deliver up those
prisoners of war whom we had taken that he would deliver up the
city of Antiparah unto us.

Alma 57:2
 2 But I sent an epistle unto the king, that we were sure our
forces were sufficient to take the city of Antiparah by our
force; and by delivering up the prisoners for that city we should
suppose ourselves unwise, and that we would only deliver up our
prisoners on exchange.

Alma 57:3
 3 And Ammoron refused mine epistle, for he would not exchange
prisoners; therefore we began to make preparations to go against
the city of Antiparah.

Alma 57:4
 4 But the people of Antiparah did leave the city, and fled to
their other cities, which they had possession of, to fortify
them; and thus the city of Antiparah fell into our hands.

Alma 57:5
 5 And thus ended the twenty and eighth year of the reign of the
judges.

Alma 57:6
 6 And it came to pass that in the commencement of the twenty and
ninth year, we received a supply of provisions, and also an
addition to our army, from the land of Zarahemla, and from the
land round about, to the number of six thousand men, besides
sixty of the sons of the Ammonites who had come to join their
brethren, my little band of two thousand.  And now behold, we
were strong, yea, and we had also plenty of provisions brought
unto us.

Alma 57:7
 7 And it came to pass that it was our desire to wage a battle
with the army which was placed to protect the city Cumeni.

Alma 57:8
 8 And now behold, I will show unto you that we soon accomplished
our desire; yea, with our strong force, or with a part of our
strong force, we did surround, by night, the city Cumeni, a
little before they were to receive a supply of provisions.

Alma 57:9
 9 And it came to pass that we did camp round about the city for
many nights; but we did sleep upon our swords, and keep guards,
that the Lamanites could not come upon us by night and slay us,
which they attempted many times; but as many times as they
attempted this their blood was spilt.

Alma 57:10
 10 At length their provisions did arrive, and they were about to
enter the city by night.  And we, instead of being Lamanites,
were Nephites; therefore, we did take them and their provisions.

Alma 57:11
 11 And notwithstanding the Lamanites being cut off from their
support after this manner, they were still determined to maintain
the city; therefore it became expedient that we should take those
provisions and send them to Judea, and our prisoners to the land
of Zarahemla.

Alma 57:12
 12 And it came to pass that not many days had passed away before
the Lamanites began to lose all hopes of succor; therefore they
yielded up the city unto our hands; and thus we had accomplished
our designs in obtaining the city Cumeni.

Alma 57:13
 13 But it came to pass that our prisoners were so numerous that,
notwithstanding the enormity of our numbers, we were obliged to
employ all our force to keep them, or to put them to death.

Alma 57:14
 14 For behold, they would break out in great numbers, and would
fight with stones, and with clubs, or whatsoever thing they could
get into their hands, insomuch that we did slay upwards of two
thousand of them after they had surrendered themselves prisoners
of war.

Alma 57:15
 15 Therefore it became expedient for us, that we should put an
end to their lives, or guard them, sword in hand, down to the
land of Zarahemla; and also our provisions were not any more than
sufficient for our own people, notwithstanding that which we had
taken from the Lamanites.

Alma 57:16
 16 And now, in those critical circumstances, it became a very
serious matter to determine concerning these prisoners of war;
nevertheless, we did resolve to send them down to the land of
Zarahemla; therefore we selected a part of our men, and gave them
charge over our prisoners to go down to the land of Zarahemla.

Alma 57:17
 17 But it came to pass that on the morrow they did return.  And
now behold, we did not inquire of them concerning the prisoners;
for behold, the Lamanites were upon us, and they returned in
season to save us from falling into their hands.  For behold,
Ammoron had sent to their support a new supply of provisions and
also a numerous army of men.

Alma 57:18
 18 And it came to pass that those men whom we sent with the
prisoners did arrive in season to check them, as they were about
to overpower us.

Alma 57:19
 19 But behold, my little band of two thousand and sixty fought
most desperately; yea, they were firm before the Lamanites, and
did administer death unto all those who opposed them.

Alma 57:20
 20 And as the remainder of our army were about to give way
before the Lamanites, behold, those two thousand and sixty were
firm and undaunted.

Alma 57:21
 21 Yea, and they did obey and observe to perform every word of
command with exactness; yea, and even according to their faith it
was done unto them; and I did remember the words which they said
unto me that their mothers had taught them.

Alma 57:22
 22 And now behold, it was these my sons, and those men who had
been selected to convey the prisoners, to whom we owe this great
victory; for it was they who did beat the Lamanites; therefore
they were driven back to the city of Manti.

Alma 57:23
 23 And we retained our city Cumeni, and were not all destroyed
by the sword; nevertheless, we had suffered great loss.

Alma 57:24
 24 And it came to pass that after the Lamanites had fled, I
immediately gave orders that my men who had been wounded should
be taken from among the dead, and caused that their wounds should
be dressed.

Alma 57:25
 25 And it came to pass that there were two hundred, out of my
two thousand and sixty, who had fainted because of the loss of
blood; nevertheless, according to the goodness of God, and to our
great astonishment, and also the joy of our whole army, there was
not one soul of them who did perish; yea, and neither was there
one soul among them who had not received many wounds.

Alma 57:26
 26 And now, their preservation was astonishing to our whole
army, yea, that they should be spared while there was a thousand
of our brethren who were slain.  And we do justly ascribe it to
the miraculous power of God, because of their exceeding faith in
that which they had been taught to believe--that there was a just
God, and whosoever did not doubt, that they should be preserved
by his marvelous power.

Alma 57:27
 27 Now this was the faith of these of whom I have spoken; they
are young, and their minds are firm, and they do put their trust
in God continually.

Alma 57:28
 28 And now it came to pass that after we had thus taken care of
our wounded men, and had buried our dead and also the dead of the
Lamanites, who were many, behold, we did inquire of Gid
concerning the prisoners whom they had started to go down to the
land of Zarahemla with.

Alma 57:29
 29 Now Gid was the chief captain over the band who was appointed
to guard them down to the land.

Alma 57:30
 30 And now, these are the words which Gid said unto me: Behold,
we did start to go down to the land of Zarahemla with our
prisoners.  And it came to pass that we did meet the spies of our
armies, who had been sent out to watch the camp of the Lamanites.

Alma 57:31
 31 And they cried unto us, saying--Behold, the armies of the
Lamanites are marching towards the city of Cumeni; and behold,
they will fall upon them, yea, and will destroy our people.

Alma 57:32
 32 And it came to pass that our prisoners did hear their cries,
which caused them to take courage; and they did rise up in
rebellion against us.

Alma 57:33
 33 And it came to pass because of their rebellion we did cause
that our swords should come upon them.  And it came to pass that
they did in a body run upon our swords, in the which, the greater
number of them were slain; and the remainder of them broke
through and fled from us.

Alma 57:34
 34 And behold, when they had fled and we could not overtake
them, we took our march with speed towards the city Cumeni; and
behold, we did arrive in time that we might assist our brethren
in preserving the city.

Alma 57:35
 35 And behold, we are again delivered out of the hands of our
enemies.  And blessed is the name of our God; for behold, it is
he that has delivered us; yea, that has done this great thing for
us.

Alma 57:36
 36 Now it came to pass that when I, Helaman, had heard these
words of Gid, I was filled with exceeding joy because of the
goodness of God in preserving us, that we might not all perish;
yea, and I trust that the souls of them who have been slain have
entered into the rest of their God.

Alma 58
Chapter 58

Alma 58:1
 1 And behold, now it came to pass that our next object was to
obtain the city of Manti; but behold, there was no way that we
could lead them out of the city by our small bands.  For behold,
they remembered that which we had hitherto done; therefore we
could not decoy them away from their strongholds.

Alma 58:2
 2 And they were so much more numerous than was our army that we
durst not go forth and attack them in their strongholds.

Alma 58:3
 3 Yea, and it became expedient that we should employ our men to
the maintaining those parts of the land which we had regained of
our possessions; therefore it became expedient that we should
wait, that we might receive more strength from the land of
Zarahemla and also a new supply of provisions.

Alma 58:4
 4 And it came to pass that I thus did send an embassy to the
governor of our land, to acquaint him concerning the affairs of
our people.  And it came to pass that we did wait to receive
provisions and strength from the land of Zarahemla.

Alma 58:5
 5 But behold, this did profit us but little; for the Lamanites
were also receiving great strength from day to day, and also many
provisions; and thus were our circumstances at this period of
time.

Alma 58:6
 6 And the Lamanites were sallying forth against us from time to
time, resolving by stratagem to destroy us; nevertheless we could
not come to battle with them, because of their retreats and their
strongholds.

Alma 58:7
 7 And it came to pass that we did wait in these difficult
circumstances for the space of many months, even until we were
about to perish for the want of food.

Alma 58:8
 8 But it came to pass that we did receive food, which was
guarded to us by an army of two thousand men to our assistance;
and this is all the assistance which we did receive, to defend
ourselves and our country from falling into the hands of our
enemies, yea, to contend with an enemy which was innumerable.

Alma 58:9
 9 And now the cause of these our embarrassments, or the cause
why they did not send more strength unto us, we knew not;
therefore we were grieved and also filled with fear, lest by any
means the judgments of God should come upon our land, to our
overthrow and utter destruction.

Alma 58:10
 10 Therefore we did pour out our souls in prayer to God, that he
would strengthen us and deliver us out of the hands of our
enemies, yea, and also give us strength that we might retain our
cities, and our lands, and our possessions, for the support of
our people.

Alma 58:11
 11 Yea, and it came to pass that the Lord our God did visit us
with assurances that he would deliver us; yea, insomuch that he
did speak peace to our souls, and did grant unto us great faith,
and did cause us that we should hope for our deliverance in him.

Alma 58:12
 12 And we did take courage with our small force which we had
received, and were fixed with a determination to conquer our
enemies, and to maintain our lands, and our possessions, and our
wives, and our children, and the cause of our liberty.

Alma 58:13
 13 And thus we did go forth with all our might against the
Lamanites, who were in the city of Manti; and we did pitch our
tents by the wilderness side, which was near to the city.

Alma 58:14
 14 And it came to pass that on the morrow, that when the
Lamanites saw that we were in the borders by the wilderness which
was near the city, that they sent out their spies round about us
that they might discover the number and the strength of our army.

Alma 58:15
 15 And it came to pass that when they saw that we were not
strong, according to our numbers, and fearing that we should cut
them off from their support except they should come out to battle
against us and kill us, and also supposing that they could easily
destroy us with their numerous hosts, therefore they began to
make preparations to come out against us to battle.

Alma 58:16
 16 And when we saw that they were making preparations to come
out against us, behold, I caused that Gid, with a small number of
men, should secrete himself in the wilderness, and also that
Teomner and a small number of men should secrete themselves also
in the wilderness.

Alma 58:17
 17 Now Gid and his men were on the right and the others on the
left; and when they had thus secreted themselves, behold, I
remained, with the remainder of my army, in that same place where
we had first pitched our tents against the time that the
Lamanites should come out to battle.

Alma 58:18
 18 And it came to pass that the Lamanites did come out with
their numerous army against us.  And when they had come and were
about to fall upon us with the sword, I caused that my men, those
who were with me, should retreat into the wilderness.

Alma 58:19
 19 And it came to pass that the Lamanites did follow after us
with great speed, for they were exceedingly desirous to overtake
us that they might slay us; therefore they did follow us into the
wilderness; and we did pass by in the midst of Gid and Teomner,
insomuch that they were not discovered by the Lamanites.

Alma 58:20
 20 And it came to pass that when the Lamanites had passed by, or
when the army had passed by, Gid and Teomner did rise up from
their secret places, and did cut off the spies of the Lamanites
that they should not return to the city.

Alma 58:21
 21 And it came to pass that when they had cut them off, they ran
to the city and fell upon the guards who were left to guard the
city, insomuch that they did destroy them and did take possession
of the city.
Alma 58:22
 22 Now this was done because the Lamanites did suffer their
whole army, save a few guards only, to be led away into the
wilderness.

Alma 58:23
 23 And it came to pass that Gid and Teomner by this means had
obtained possession of their strongholds.  And it came to pass
that we took our course, after having traveled much in the
wilderness towards the land of Zarahemla.

Alma 58:24
 24 And when the Lamanites saw that they were marching towards
the land of Zarahemla, they were exceedingly afraid, lest there
was a plan laid to lead them on to destruction; therefore they
began to retreat into the wilderness again, yea, even back by the
same way which they had come.

Alma 58:25
 25 And behold, it was night and they did pitch their tents, for
the chief captains of the Lamanites had supposed that the
Nephites were weary because of their march; and supposing that
they had driven their whole army therefore they took no thought
concerning the city of Manti.

Alma 58:26
 26 Now it came to pass that when it was night, I caused that my
men should not sleep, but that they should march forward by
another way towards the land of Manti.

Alma 58:27
 27 And because of this our march in the night-time, behold, on
the morrow we were beyond the Lamanites, insomuch that we did
arrive before them at the city of Manti.

Alma 58:28
 28 And thus it came to pass, that by this stratagem we did take
possession of the city of Manti without the shedding of blood.

Alma 58:29
 29 And it came to pass that when the armies of the Lamanites did
arrive near the city, and saw that we were prepared to meet them,
they were astonished exceedingly and struck with great fear,
insomuch that they did flee into the wilderness.

Alma 58:30
 30 Yea, and it came to pass that the armies of the Lamanites did
flee out of all this quarter of the land.  But behold, they have
carried with them many women and children out of the land.

Alma 58:31
 31 And those cities which had been taken by the Lamanites, all
of them are at this period of time in our possession; and our
fathers and our women and our children are returning to their
homes, all save it be those who have been taken prisoners and
carried off by the Lamanites.

Alma 58:32
 32 But behold, our armies are small to maintain so great a
number of cities and so great possessions.

Alma 58:33
 33 But behold, we trust in our God who has given us victory over
those lands, insomuch that we have obtained those cities and
those lands, which were our own.

Alma 58:34
 34 Now we do not know the cause that the government does not
grant us more strength; neither do those men who came up unto us
know why we have not received greater strength.

Alma 58:35
 35 Behold, we do not know but what ye are unsuccessful, and ye
have drawn away the forces into that quarter of the land; if so,
we do not desire to murmur.

Alma 58:36
 36 And if it is not so, behold, we fear that there is some
faction in the government, that they do not send more men to our
assistance; for we know that they are more numerous than that
which they have sent.

Alma 58:37
 37 But, behold, it mattereth not--we trust God will deliver us,
notwithstanding the weakness of our armies, yea, and deliver us
out of the hands of our enemies.

Alma 58:38
 38 Behold, this is the twenty and ninth year, in the latter end,
and we are in the possession of our lands; and the Lamanites have
fled to the land of Nephi.

Alma 58:39
 39 And those sons of the people of Ammon, of whom I have so
highly spoken, are with me in the city of Manti; and the Lord had
supported them, yea, and kept them from falling by the sword,
insomuch that even one soul has not been slain.

Alma 58:40
 40 But behold, they have received many wounds; nevertheless they
stand fast in that liberty wherewith God has made them free; and
they are strict to remember the Lord their God from day to day;
yea, they do observe to keep his statutes, and his judgments, and
his commandments continually; and their faith is strong in the
prophecies concerning that which is to come.

Alma 58:41
 41 And now, my beloved brother, Moroni, may the Lord our God,
who has redeemed us and made us free, keep you continually in his
presence; yea, and may he favor this people, even that ye may
have success in obtaining the possession of all that which the
Lamanites have taken from us, which was for our support.  And
now, behold, I close mine epistle.  I am Helaman, the son of
Alma.








