Hearken unto me, ye men of Shechem, that God may hearken unto you.
Judges 9:8	The trees went forth [on a time] to anoint a king over them; and they said unto the olive tree, Reign thou over us.
Judges 9:9	But the olive tree said unto them, Should I leave my fatness, wherewith by me they honour God and man, and go to be promoted over the trees?
Judges 9:10	And the trees said to the fig tree, Come thou, [and] reign over us.
Judges 9:11	But the fig tree said unto them, Should I forsake my sweetness, and my good fruit, and go to be promoted over the trees?
Judges 9:12	Then said the trees unto the vine, Come thou, [and] reign over us.
Judges 9:13	And the vine said unto them, Should I leave my wine, which cheereth God and man, and go to be promoted over the trees?
Judges 9:14	Then said all the trees unto the bramble, Come thou, [and] reign over us.
Judges 9:15	And the bramble said unto the trees, If in truth ye anoint me king over you, [then] come [and] put your trust in my shadow: and if not, let fire come out of the bramble, and devour the cedars of Lebanon.
Judges 9:16	Now therefore, if ye have done truly and sincerely, in that ye have made Abimelech king, and if ye have dealt well with Jerubbaal and his house, and have done unto him according to the deserving of his hands;
Judges 9:17	(For my father fought for you, and adventured his life far, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian:
Judges 9:18	And ye are risen up against my father’s house this day, and have slain his sons, threescore and ten persons, upon one stone, and have made Abimelech, the son of his maidservant, king over the men of Shechem, because he [is] your brother;)
Judges 9:19	If ye then have dealt truly and sincerely with Jerubbaal and with his house this day, [then] rejoice ye in Abimelech, and let him also rejoice in you:
Judges 9:20	But if not, let fire come out from Abimelech, and devour the men of Shechem, and the house of Millo; and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the house of Millo, and devour Abimelech.