Come, and let us return; lest my father leave [caring] for the asses, and take thought for us.

But, behold, [if] we go, what shall we bring the man? for the bread is spent in our vessels, and [there is] not a present to bring to the man of God: what have we?

Well said; come, let us go.

Is the seer here?

Tell me, I pray thee, where the seer’s house [is].

[Am] not I a Benjamite, of the smallest of the tribes of Israel? and my family the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? wherefore then speakest thou so to me?

To seek the asses: and when we saw that [they were] no where, we came to Samuel.

He told us plainly that the asses were found.

What [aileth] the people that they weep? 

Whosoever cometh not forth after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done unto his oxen.

There shall not a man be put to death this day: for to day the LORD hath wrought salvation in Israel.

Bring hither a burnt offering to me, and peace offerings.


Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and [that] thou camest not within the days appointed, and [that] the Philistines gathered themselves together at Michmash;
1 Samuel 13:12	Therefore said I, The Philistines will come down now upon me to Gilgal, and I have not made supplication unto the LORD: I forced myself therefore, and offered a burnt offering.

Number now, and see who is gone from us.

Bring hither the ark of God. 

Withdraw thine hand.

Cursed [be] the man that eateth [any] food until evening, that I may be avenged on mine enemies.

Behold, the people sin against the LORD, in that they eat with the blood. And he said, Ye have transgressed: roll a great stone unto me this day.

Disperse yourselves among the people, and say unto them, Bring me hither every man his ox, and every man his sheep, and slay [them] here, and eat; and sin not against the LORD in eating with the blood. And all the people brought every man his ox with him that night, and slew [them] there.

Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and spoil them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them.

Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel?

1 Samuel 14:39	For, [as] the LORD liveth, which saveth Israel, though it be in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die.

Be ye on one side, and I and Jonathan my son will be on the other side.

Cast [lots] between me and Jonathan my son.

Tell me what thou hast done.

God do so and more also: for thou shalt surely die, Jonathan.

Go, depart, get you down from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them: for ye shewed kindness to all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt.

Blessed [be] thou of the LORD: I have performed the commandment of the LORD.

They have brought them from the Amalekites: for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen, to sacrifice unto the LORD thy God; and the rest we have utterly destroyed.

Yea, I have obeyed the voice of the LORD, and have gone the way which the LORD sent me, and have brought Agag the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekites.
1 Samuel 15:21	But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the chief of the things which should have been utterly destroyed, to sacrifice unto the LORD thy God in Gilgal.

I have sinned: for I have transgressed the commandment of the LORD, and thy words: because I feared the people, and obeyed their voice.
1 Samuel 15:25	Now therefore, I pray thee, pardon my sin, and turn again with me, that I may worship the LORD.

I have sinned: [yet] honour me now, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn again with me, that I may worship the LORD thy God.






